-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 IAxDBMYp8uRnr6Pq1WCgp1pDtqDvVBks/C17MRJwwJE0O3eCwNpZZtRGnPi5jqDV
 CDEjJoeLASpjQyzIZ1KiwQ==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000905895-02-000005.txt : 20020415
<SEC-HEADER>0000905895-02-000005.hdr.sgml : 20020415
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000905895-02-000005
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		3
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20011231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20020401

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			HOLLYWOOD ENTERTAINMENT CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000905895
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-VIDEO TAPE RENTAL [7841]
		IRS NUMBER:				930981138
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			OR
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-21824
		FILM NUMBER:		02597581

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		9275 SW PEYTON LANE
		CITY:			WILSONVILLE
		STATE:			OR
		ZIP:			97070
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5035701600

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		9275 SW PEYTON LANE
		CITY:			WILSONVILLE
		STATE:			OR
		ZIP:			97070
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>r10k-01.txt
<DESCRIPTION>REPORT ON FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington DC  20549

                                   FORM 10-K


[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended     December 31, 2001
                              -----------------
                                      OR
[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from                 to
                               ---------------    ----------------

Commission file number   0-21824
                        ----------
                      HOLLYWOOD ENTERTAINMENT CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

             Oregon                               93-0981138
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------
     (State or other jurisdiction of            (IRS Employer
     incorporation or organization)             identification No.)

      9275 SW Peyton Lane, Wilsonville, OR 97070
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    (Address of principal executive offices)  (Zip Code)

                         (503) 570-1600
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

       SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT: NONE
SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
 Title of Each Class               Name of Each Exchange on
- -----------------------            Which Registered
                                   --------------------------
  Common Stock                     Nasdaq National Market

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period than the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes  [X]    No [ ]
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of the Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  [X]
     On March 15, 2002, the registrant had 58,203,058 shares of Common Stock
outstanding, and on such date, the aggregate market value of the shares of
Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was $862,133,594 based
upon the last sale price reported for such date on the Nasdaq National Market.





                                    PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

GENERAL

We are the second largest specialty retailer of rentable home videocassettes,
DVDs and video games in the United States.  We operate approximately 1,800
Hollywood Video superstores in 47 states and the District of Columbia and
estimate our share of the domestic videocassette and DVD rental market to be
approximately 10%.  For the year ended December 31, 2001, our average store
generated revenue of approximately $766,000.  Our total revenue (excluding our
discontinued Reel.com operations) for the years ended December 31, 2000 and
2001 was $1.270 billion and $1.380 billion, respectively, representing
increases of 20.4% and 8.7% over the comparable prior periods.  For the year
ended December 31, 2001, approximately 83% of our revenue was derived from the
rental of movies, in both the VHS and DVD format, and games.  The remainder of
our revenue was generated from the sale of new and previously-viewed movies and
games and concessions.

Following our inception in 1988, we grew our revenue through new store openings
as well as by increasing our comparable store sales.  We opened an average of
306 stores per year from 1996 through 2000.  We also produced comparable store
sales increases in 24 of the last 25 quarters, including an 11% increase for
both the third and fourth quarters of 2001 (as compared in each case to the
corresponding quarter of the preceding year).

During the second half of 2000 and in 2001 we made significant improvements to
our management team, including the reinstatement of our founder as President
and the hiring of a new Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
We also discontinued our e-commerce operations and modified our business
strategy to curtail new store openings for a period of time and focus more
intently on the opportunities that exist in our existing stores.  Our current
management team is focused on implementing our business strategy through a
disciplined approach to our operational and financial performance and
objectives.  After being a net user of cash since our inception, we have been a
net generator of cash since the fourth quarter of 2000.

Our goal is to continue to build a strong national brand and an effective
superstore format that distinguishes us from our competitors.  Our branding
strategy is designed to cause consumers to identify us with the entertainment
industry, while our superstore format is designed to encourage multiple rentals
per visit and repeat visits. In each superstore, we focus on providing a
superior selection of movies and video games in an inviting atmosphere that
encourages browsing.  Our customer transaction database contains information on
about 34 million household member accounts, enabling us to engage in targeted
marketing based on historical usage patterns.


INDUSTRY OVERVIEW

Industry Data

In this report on Form 10-K, we rely on and refer to information regarding
industry data obtained from market research, publicly available information,
industry publications and other third-party sources. Although we believe the
information is reliable, we cannot guarantee the accuracy or completeness of
the information and have not independently verified it.

Home Video Industry

According to Adams Media Research ("AMR"), the total domestic video retail
industry (consisting of both rentals and sales) grew approximately 11% in 2001,
from $21.1 billion in revenue in 2000 to $23.4 billion in 2001, and is expected
to grow to over $34.0 billion by 2010.  According to AMR, the domestic
videocassette and DVD rental industry hit an all-time high of $10.8 billion in
revenue for 2001, while sales of movie videos were approximately $12.5 billion.

We believe the following factors, among others, continue to make video rental a
preferred medium of entertainment for millions of customers.

- -  the continued improvement in home entertainment technology (e.g., DVD,
   surround sound, HDTV);

- -  the opportunity to entertain one or more people at home for a reasonable
   price;

- -  the opportunity to browse among a very broad selection of movies; and

- -  the ability to control the viewing experience, such as the ability to start,
   stop, pause, fast-forward and rewind.

According to AMR, VCR penetration now stands at 93.5% of the 102.6 million
domestic television households.  In addition, AMR predicts that DVD player
shipments will exceed 13.0 million units in 2001, bringing the total number of
DVD households to 24.8 million, representing penetration of nearly 25% of
domestic television households, and that DVD player penetration will increase
to 45.7 million households, or nearly 50% of domestic television households, by
2003.  AMR also reported that the growth rate of DVD player sales in their
first four years of existence has outpaced comparable initial sales growth
rates for CD players and VCRs by multiples of 3 to 1 and 8 to 1, respectively.

The home video rental industry is highly fragmented but has experienced
consolidation in recent years as video store chains have gained significant
market share from independent store operators.  Based upon information
published by Video Store Magazine, we estimate that the three largest video
rental store chains (including Hollywood Video) had a 53% market share of all
domestic consumer video rentals in 2000 (including estimated revenues
associated with franchise stores), with the remainder of the market share
largely represented by small independent store operators.

Movie Studio Dependence on Video Retail Industry

According to AMR, the home video industry is the single largest source of
revenue to movie studios and represented approximately $9.5 billion, or 54.8%,
of the $17.4 billion of estimated domestic studio revenue in 2000.  Of the many
movies produced by major studios and released in the United States each year,
relatively few are profitable for the studios based on box office revenues
alone.  According to the Motion Picture Association of America, in 2000, the
average movie generated approximately $30.0 million in worldwide theater
revenue for studios.  Over the past few years, the average total cost to make
and market a movie has increased significantly to over $82.0 million.
Therefore, the average movie loses approximately $50.0 million at the box
office and relies on other sources of revenue, most importantly home video, to
become profitable.  Due to the unique browsing characteristics of the retail
environment, a Hollywood Video store's average customer rents slightly over 2.0
movies per transaction-frequently one hit and one non-hit movie.  Because of
this, we offer for rental almost all movies produced by the movie studios
regardless of whether they were successful at the box office, including movies
released direct-to-video, thus providing movie studios with a reliable source
of revenue for almost all of their movies.

As a result of the importance of the video retail industry to the movie
studios' revenue base, the home video rental and sales (sell-through) markets
enjoy a period of time in which they have the exclusive rights to distribute a
movie. This period typically begins after a film finishes its domestic
theatrical run (usually five months after its debut) or upon its release to
video (in the case of direct-to-video releases) and lasts for 30 to 90 days
thereafter.  This period of exclusivity is intended to maximize revenue to the
movie studio prior to a movie being released to other distribution channels,
including pay-per-view, video-on-demand, pay-TV and broadcast television, and
provides what we believe is a significant competitive advantage.

Trends in Video Rental and Sales

Studios have historically sold videocassettes to video retailers under two
pricing structures, "rental" and "sell-through."  Under rental pricing, rental
titles are initially sold by the movie studios at relatively high prices
(typically $60 to $65 wholesale) and promoted primarily for rental, and then
later re-released to retailers for sale to consumers at a lower price
(typically $10 to $15).  Certain high-grossing box office films, generally with
box office revenue in excess of $100.0 million, are targeted at the sell-
through market.  These titles are released on videocassette at a relatively low
initial price (approximately $12 to $17 wholesale) and are both promoted as a
rental title by video stores and sold directly to consumers through a broad
array of retailers including video stores.  Studios elect to release a title
either as rental or sell-through based on which would optimize their income
from the title.  Due to the high up-front costs associated with rental pricing,
it was difficult for rental retailers to buy enough copies to satisfy customer
demand in the first few weeks of a title's release.

In 1998, the major studios and several large video retailers, including
Hollywood, began entering into revenue sharing arrangements for VHS
videocassettes as an alternative to the historical "rental" pricing structures.
These arrangements have produced significant benefits for us, including:

- -  substantially increasing the volume of newly released videos in our stores;

- -  contributing to an increase in revenues resulting from a rise in the total
   number of transactions and the number of videocassettes rented per
   transaction; and

- -  aligning the studios' economic interests more closely with ours because they
   share a portion of the rental revenue.

As a result, we currently acquire the majority of all of our VHS videocassettes
from studios under revenue sharing arrangements.

With the introduction of DVD as a new technology for the home video industry,
in November 1998 we introduced DVDs in all of our stores, resulting in the most
successful introduction of a new format in our history.  DVDs are our fastest
growing new category in both rental and sales of new and previously-viewed
product due to increased interest in older movie titles as a result of the
substantial improvement in picture and sound quality over VHS and the rapid
adoption and rollout of DVD hardware to domestic households as a result of its
affordable price.

Currently, we acquire the majority of our DVDs for rental inventory from
studios at attractive sell-through prices (typically $17-$18).  This pricing
methodology by the movie studios has enabled us to offer depth and selection to
satisfy high consumer demand for DVD rentals.  In addition, as consumers
increasingly prefer the DVD medium, we have experienced significant growth in
the sale of previously-viewed DVDs.  As a result of the acceptance of DVD by
consumers and the success of VHS revenue sharing for both the video retailers
and the movie studios, we and the movie studios believe that there may be a
benefit to DVD revenue sharing in the future.  In August 2001, we announced our
first DVD revenue sharing arrangement with a major studio and entered into our
second DVD revenue sharing arrangement in January 2002.  We believe that, with
or without revenue sharing, we will be able to continue strong growth in DVD.

Home Video Game Industry

According to NPD Group, Inc. ("NPD"), the electronic game industry was
approximately a $9.4 billion market in the United States in 2001. Also,
according to International Data Corporation ("IDC"), the home video game
industry is projected to grow by a compound annual growth rate of approximately
45% from 2001 through 2003 as a result of the recent high profile platform
launches of the Sony PlayStation 2, Nintendo GameCube and the Microsoft Xbox.
We expect this growth to positively impact game rentals as a recent survey
conducted by the Sega of America consumer research department illustrated a
strong inclination of game enthusiasts to rent titles before committing to
their purchase, as three out of every five game players rented video games at
least once a month with the average video game enthusiast renting nine
different titles in the past six months. We believe the key factors
contributing to this growth opportunity, which we expect to result in increased
sales and rental of video game products, includes the following:

   Hardware platform technology evolution

   Video game hardware has evolved significantly from the early products
   launched in the 1980s.  With the launch of three new gaming systems in 2001,
   Nintendo's Gamecube and Game Boy Advance and Microsoft's Xbox, and the
   October 2000 launch of Sony's PlayStation 2, IDC expects the total video
   game hardware sales in 2002 and 2003 to be approximately $4.2 billion.
   According to NPD, next-generation console systems such as Gamecube, Xbox and
   Sony PlayStation 2 led to a triple-digit increase of over 120% in revenues
   for 2001 versus 2000.  Technological advancements have provided significant
   improvements in advanced graphics and audio quality, allowing software
   developers to create more advanced games, which encourage existing players
   to upgrade their hardware platforms and attract new video game players to
   purchase an initial system.

   Next-generation systems provide multiple capabilities beyond gaming

   Many next-generation hardware platforms, including the Sony PlayStation 2
   and the Microsoft Xbox, utilize a DVD software format and have the potential
   to serve as multi-purpose entertainment centers by doubling as a player for
   DVD movies and compact discs.  In addition, the Sony PlayStation 2 and the
   Microsoft Xbox are expected to provide Internet connectivity.

   Introduction of next-generation hardware platforms drives software demand

   Sales of video game software generally increase as next-generation platforms
   mature and gain wider acceptance.  While gaming hardware is very important,
   the game software is the driving force of revenue, as the hardware is
   relatively useless without the software.  Historically, when a new system is
   released, a limited number of compatible game titles are immediately
   available, but the selection grows rapidly as manufacturers and third-party
   publishers develop and release game titles for that new system.  IDC's
   forecast is that the video game software industry will grow by a compound
   annual growth rate of approximately 60% from 2001 through 2003.

   Broadening demographic appeal

   While the typical electronic game enthusiast is a male between the ages of
   14 and 34, the electronic game industry is broadening its appeal.  More
   females are playing electronic video games, in part due to the development
   of video game products that appeal to them.  According to Interactive
   Digital Software Association ("IDSA"), approximately 43% of all electronic
   game players currently are female.  Industry experts believe that game
   innovation will open up other market opportunities, expanding sales and
   bringing in a new base of gamers.

   Used Video Game Market

   As the installed base of video game hardware platforms has increased and
   new hardware platforms are introduced, a growing used video game market has
   evolved in the United States.  With the abundance of titles available for
   each of the three major game platforms, used games are becoming an
   increasingly attractive option for video game enthusiasts.


BUSINESS STRATEGY

We are seeking to enhance our position as the nation's second largest specialty
retailer of rentable home videocassettes, DVDs and home video games by focusing
on the following strategies:

Provide Broad Selection and Superior Service

We are committed to providing superior service and satisfying our customers'
movie and video game demands by carrying a broad array of movies and video
games.  Our superstores typically carry more than 7,000 movie titles on more
than 16,000 videocassettes and DVDs, together with a large assortment of video
games.  In part, through our revenue sharing arrangements with studios, we have
increased the availability of most new movie releases and typically acquire 100
to 200 copies of "hit" movies for each Hollywood Video store.  We believe that
this breadth and depth of movie titles, together with our emphasis on superior
customer service, results in a higher average level of rentals per store visit,
creates greater customer satisfaction and encourages repeat visits.

Provide Excellent Entertainment Value

We offer an inexpensive form of entertainment for the family and allow
consumers the opportunity to rent new movie releases, catalog movie titles and
video games for five days in most of our stores.  New movie release titles in
the VHS format typically rent for $3.79 and catalog movies for $1.99. All DVDs
rent for $3.79 and video games rent for $4.99 and $5.99, with games for the
newer system platforms renting for the higher amount.  We believe movie and
video game rental in general, and our pricing structure and rental terms in
particular, provide consumers convenient entertainment and excellent value.

Capitalize On DVDs

Since its launch, DVD has established itself as a proven rental format.  In the
fourth quarter of 2001, DVDs represented an increasing percentage of our total
rental revenue as compared to the fourth quarter of 2000.  Furthermore, DVD
penetration is expected to significantly rise between 2002 and 2004, as AMR
predicts that DVD player penetration will approach 50% of domestic television
households by 2003.  We expect the percentage mix of DVD rentals will increase
with the expected growth in DVD player penetration.  To date, we have
experienced a significant increase in the rental frequency of consumers who
have shifted to DVD technology from VHS, due primarily to the higher quality of
DVD and a desire to see movies previously seen on VHS.

Capitalize On New Game Platform Rollouts

According to International Development Corporation ("IDC"), the home video game
industry is projected to grow by a compound annual growth rate of approximately
45% from 2001 through 2003 as a result of the recent high profile platform
launches of the Sony PlayStation 2, Nintendo GameCube and the Microsoft Xbox.
With approximately $1.0 billion expected to be committed to marketing these new
platforms by their manufacturers, video game rental revenues are expected to
increase significantly following the launch of these new platforms.  In the
fourth quarter of 2001, video games represented an increasing percentage of our
total rental revenue as compared to the third quarter of 2001.

In addition to our traditional video game rental business, we are further
developing a business initiative that enables video game enthusiasts to buy,
sell and trade new and used video games.  This initiative, called "Game Crazy"
is currently in 66 of our stores and is designed as a store-within-a-store
concept, leveraging a portion of our existing superstore real estate and
capitalizing on the anticipated increase in home video games sales.  A typical
"Game Crazy" store-within-a-store generates approximately $393,000 in annual
incremental store revenue.  Benefiting from the new hardware launches, Game
Crazy experienced a comparable department sales increase of 34.8% for the
fourth quarter of 2001 (as compared to the fourth quarter of 2000).

Pursue Organic Store Growth

Nearly 95% of our 1,535 video superstores opened since 1995 have been new
stores rather than the acquisition of existing stores.  We believe that control
over site selection, discipline in the real estate process and consistency of
store format and design have allowed us to enjoy attractive returns on invested
capital.  Our organic store growth strategy is to selectively add Hollywood
superstores in existing markets where we believe the market will successfully
absorb additional Hollywood superstores.


STORES AND STORE OPERATIONS

Store Openings

We opened our first video superstore in October 1988 and grew to 25 superstores
in Oregon and Washington by the end of 1993.  In 1994, we significantly
accelerated our store expansion program, adding 88 superstores and expanding
into California, Texas, Nevada, New Mexico, Virginia and Utah.  In 1995, we
added 192 superstores and entered major new markets in the midwest, southwest,
east and southeast regions of the United States.  Following is a table showing
our superstore growth from 1994 to 2001:

                                      Year Ended December 31,
                       -----------------------------------------------------
                       1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
                       -----------------------------------------------------

Beginning                25    113    305    551    907  1,260  1,615  1,818
                       -----------------------------------------------------
Opened                   33    122    250    356    312    319    208      6
Acquired                 55     70      -      -     41     43      -      -
Closed                    -      -     (4)     -      -     (7)    (5)   (23)
                       -----------------------------------------------------
Ending                  113    305    551    907  1,260  1,615  1,818  1,801
                       =====================================================

Unlike many video retailers who have grown through acquisitions, we have
focused on organic growth.  Of Hollywood's 1,535 video superstores opened since
1995, nearly 95% of these superstores have been opened as new stores.  All
sites are chosen through a rigorous site selection process. We have achieved
significant geographic diversification in our store base, which helps insulate
us from potentially detrimental economic, competitive or weather-related
effects in isolated areas of the country.  We believe this diversification
helps us deliver more predictable and stable revenue.

We presently intend to seek to open approximately 50 new stores during 2002 and
to increase our store base by approximately 10% per year thereafter.

Superstore Format

Our superstores average approximately 6,800 square feet and are substantially
larger than the stores of most of our competitors.  The store exteriors
generally feature large Hollywood Video signs, which make our stores easily
visible to and recognizable by consumers.  The interior of each store is clean
and brightly lit.  Our superstores are decorated with colorful murals depicting
popular screen stars and walls of video monitors with hi-fi audio accompaniment
to create an exciting Hollywood environment.  To assist our customers in
locating movies, DVDs and VHS videocassettes are separately merchandized
by format, and within each format, are organized into categories and arranged
alphabetically by title within each category.  New releases are prominently
displayed in easily recognizable locations within each format.  Video games are
also located separately in our stores and are further organized in separate
merchandise displays for each major video game hardware platform.  We use wall-
mounted and freestanding shelves arranged in wide aisles to provide access to
products and to encourage the movement of customers throughout the store.

Site Selection

We believe the selection of locations for our superstores are critical to the
success of our operations.  Prior to 2000, we assembled a new store development
team with broad and significant experience in retail tenant development.  The
majority of our new store development personnel were located in the geographic
area for which they were responsible, but all final site approval takes place
at the corporate office, where new sites are approved by a committee of senior
management personnel.  Final approval of all new sites is the responsibility of
the Chairman of the Real Estate Committee of the Board of Directors.  Important
criteria for the location of a Hollywood Video superstore include density of
local residential population, traffic count on roads immediately adjacent to
the store location, visibility and accessibility of the store and availability
of ample parking.  We generally seek what we consider the most desirable
locations, typically locating our stores in high-visibility stand-alone
structures or in prominent locations in multi-tenant shopping developments.
All of our stores are located in leased premises; we do not own any real
estate.  We size our store development team to meet our anticipated
requirements for store openings for the upcoming year.  During 2000, we
downsized our store development team as part of our strategy to curtail store
growth.  Based upon our prior experience, we believe that we will be able to
quickly scale our store development team, as needed, to meet future store
growth plans.


PRODUCTS

Rental of Products

Approximately 83% of our revenue is derived from the rental of movies, in both
the VHS and DVD format, and video games.  The remainder of our revenue is
generated from the sale of new and previously-viewed movies and video games and
concessions.  Our superstores typically carry more than 7,000 movie titles,
consisting of a combination of new releases and an extensive selection of
"catalog" movies, on more than 16,000 videocassettes and DVDs.  Excluding new
releases, movie titles are classified into categories, such as "Action,"
"Comedy," "Drama" and "Children," and are displayed alphabetically within those
categories.  We do not rent or sell adult movies in any of our stores.  In
addition to video rentals, we rent video games licensed by Microsoft, Nintendo,
Sega and Sony.  We have significantly expanded our titles to support the recent
launches of Sony's PlayStation 2, Microsoft's Xbox and Nintendo's GameCube.
Each Hollywood Video store offers approximately 550 video game titles.

Sales of Products

The sales of products represented 17% of our total revenue in 2001.  We offer
new and previously-viewed movies, in both the VHS and DVD format, and video
games and concessions (e.g., popcorn, sodas and magazines) for sale.  We are
experiencing increases in our rental business as a result of the shift from VHS
to DVD.  However, we have been capital constrained and had a limited selection
of new DVDs for sale in a limited number of stores and thus have experienced
declines in total new movie sales as consumers have shifted from VHS to DVD.
However, we plan to increase our new DVD inventory for sale during 2002 to take
advantage of the increased penetration of DVD players.  While the sales of new
VHS videocassettes have decreased, our sales of previously-viewed movies for
both VHS and DVD have increased significantly due to the increased copy-depth
from revenue sharing arrangements and the typical sell-through pricing
structure for DVD.  Moreover, due to DVD's significant advantages in audio and
video quality over VHS, we have experienced tremendous growth in the sale of
previously-viewed DVDs.  We expect the market for previously-viewed DVDs to
grow as DVD penetration increases and consumers begin to build their own DVD
catalogs.  Our ability to sell previously-viewed movies at lower prices than
new movies provides a competitive advantage over mass market retailers.  In the
fourth quarter of 2001, as a result of the new video game platform launches, we
experienced an increase in our video game sales revenue. We also expect this to
continue as consumers become more aware of our "Game Crazy" buy, sell and trade
concept.


REVENUE SHARING

In the fourth quarter of 1998, we began entering into revenue sharing
arrangements directly with the majority of all of the studios with respect to
video tapes.  In most cases, these arrangements are currently entered into on a
short-term, title-by-title basis and provide for a rental revenue sharing
period of 26 weeks.  In some cases (currently two studios), these arrangements
are entered into on a longer-term basis and are generally applicable to all
titles satisfying specified criteria that are released by the applicable studio
during the term of the arrangement.  Under all of these arrangements, in
exchange for acquiring agreed-upon quantities of tapes at reduced or no up-
front cost, we share agreed-upon portions of the revenues that we derive from
the tapes with the applicable studio.

We believe that we are one of the few retailers that have revenue sharing
arrangements with all the major studios, including Buena Vista, Columbia Tri-
Star, DreamWorks, MGM, Paramount, Twentieth Century Fox, Universal Studios, and
Warner.  These revenue sharing arrangements provide the following significant
benefits:

- -  They provide the opportunity to substantially increase the quantity and
   selection of newly released video titles in stock;

- -  They contribute to an increase in revenues resulting from a rise in the
   total number of transactions and the number of titles rented per
   transaction; and

- -  They align the studios' economic interests more closely with our interests.

In addition, we believe that revenue sharing has increased the revenues
received on an annual basis by the studios through increased rental activity of
new releases as well as greater distribution of non-hit movies that we might
not otherwise purchase.  Consequently, it has been our experience that the
studios with which we enter into revenue sharing arrangements on a tape-by-tape
basis want to engage in revenue sharing arrangements with respect to all of the
titles that they release at rental prices.

Currently, we acquire the majority of our DVDs for rental inventory from
studios at attractive sell-through prices (typically $17-$18).  This pricing
methodology by the movie studios has enabled us to offer depth and selection to
satisfy high consumer demand for DVD rentals.  In addition, as consumers
increasingly prefer the DVD medium, we have experienced significant growth in
the sale of previously-viewed DVDs.  As a result of the acceptance of DVD by
consumers and the success of VHS revenue sharing for both the video retailers
and the movie studios, we believe that there may be a benefit to DVD revenue
sharing in the future.  In August 2001, we announced our first DVD revenue
sharing arrangement with a major studio and entered into our second DVD revenue
sharing arrangement in January 2002.


PRICING

We believe that our rental terms and pricing structure provide consumers
convenient entertainment and excellent value.  We currently offer a 5-day
rental program on all products in the majority of our stores.  We increased our
prices in the majority of our stores in the fourth quarter of 1998 from $1.49
to $1.99 for catalog titles and from $2.99 to $3.49 for new releases.  In the
fourth quarter of 1999, we increased our pricing on new releases from $3.49 to
$3.79 in the majority of our stores.  Since we began offering DVDs for rental,
DVDs have been priced at $3.79 for five days.  Video games rent for five days
for $4.99 and $5.99, with games for the newer system platforms renting for the
higher amount.  We did not raise prices in 2000 or in 2001.  We are currently
testing higher price points; however, we do not anticipate price increases in
the near term.  Customers who fail to return the tapes, DVDs and games within
the initial rental period automatically commence a new rental period of equal
length at the same price.


ADVERTISING AND MARKETING

Our primary goal in advertising is to increase transactions in our superstores,
either from new members or existing members.  Prior to 2000, we had
successfully employed a direct mail advertising campaign that efficiently
targeted customers in markets where our superstores were located.  In 2000,
however, we experimented with a mass media advertising campaign focused on
corporate branding primarily through television and radio.  The campaign was
not successful, and as a result, we have returned to a more cost-effective
direct mail strategy, as successfully employed in the past.  In addition, we
also continue to use cooperative movie advertising funds made available by
studios and suppliers to promote certain videos.  We will continue to test the
effectiveness of mass media campaigns in select markets, but anticipate our
primary marketing vehicle will continue to be direct mailings. We currently
have a customer transaction database containing information on approximately
34.0 million household member accounts, enabling us to engage in targeted
marketing based on historical usage patterns.


INVENTORY AND INFORMATION MANAGEMENT

Inventory Management

We maintain detailed information on inventory utilization. Our information
systems provide information which enable us to track rental and sell-through
activity by individual videocassette, DVD and video game to determine
appropriate buying, distribution and disposition of inventory, including the
sale of previously-viewed product.  Our inventory of videocassettes, DVDs and
video games for rental is prepared according to uniform standards.  Each new
videocassette, DVD and video game is removed from its original carton and
placed in a rental case with a magnetic security device and bar coding is
affixed to each videocassette, DVD and video game.

Information Management

We use scalable client-server systems and maintain two distinct systems areas:
a point-of-sale system and a corporate information system.  We maintain
information, updated daily, regarding revenue, current and historical rental
and sales activity, demographics of store membership, individual customer
history, and videocassette, DVD and video game rental patterns.  This system
allows us to compare current performance against historical performance and the
current year's budget, manage inventory, make purchasing decisions on new
releases and manage labor costs.


REEL.COM

On October 1, 1998, Hollywood acquired Reel.com, the premier online destination
for film-related content and commerce, for approximately $96.9 million.  Prior
to June 2000, Reel.com was a leader in e-commerce as a site which offered for
sale an extensive selection of approximately 50,000 titles on videocassette and
DVD.  The website also offered proprietary information about movies, including
descriptions, ratings, critics' reviews, recommendations and links to star
filmographies.  Consumers could search through Reel.com's proprietary,
hyperlinked database and preview selected videos.

By June 2000, Reel.com had grown to a run rate of approximately $80.0 million
in annual revenue, but was generating significant cash losses.  During 1999 and
2000, we attempted to finance Reel.com with outside capital, including filing a
registration statement for an initial public offering in December 1999.  By
June 2000, we recognized that Reel.com would not be able to access outside
capital.  Since we were unable to fund its continued losses, we discontinued
Reel.com's e-commerce business on June 12, 2000 and merged it with and into
Hollywood Entertainment Corporation.  We laid off substantially all of
Reel.com's employees and closed its corporate office and warehouse in
Emeryville, California.

Today, we operate the Reel.com website as a content-only website containing
information about movies.  The retained website is funded primarily through the
sale of advertising on the website and currently operates as a marketing tool
for us.  We do not expect the retained website to be a material part of our
business in the future.


COMPETITION

The video retail industry is highly competitive.  We compete with local,
regional and national video retail stores, including Blockbuster, and with mass
merchants, specialty retailers, supermarkets, pharmacies, convenience stores,
bookstores, mail order operations and other retailers, as well as with
noncommercial sources, such as libraries.  Some of our competitors have
significantly greater financial and marketing resources, market share and name
recognition than we have.

We believe the principal competitive factors in the video retail industry are
price, title selection, rental period, the number of copies of popular titles
available, store location and visibility, customer service and employee
friendliness and convenience of store access and parking.  Substantially all of
our stores compete with stores operated by Blockbuster, most in very close
proximity.

We also compete with cable and direct broadcast satellite television systems.
These systems offer both movie channels, for which subscribers pay a
subscription fee for access to movies selected by the provider at times
selected by the provider, and pay-per-view services, for which subscribers pay
a fee to view a particular movie selected by the subscriber.  Historically,
pay-per-view services have offered a limited number of channels and movies, and
have offered movies only at scheduled intervals.  Over the last few years,
however, advances in digital compression and other developing technologies have
enabled cable and satellite companies to transmit a significantly greater
number of movies to homes at more frequently scheduled intervals throughout the
day.  In addition, certain cable companies and others have tested, and are
continuing to test, video-on-demand ("V.O.D.") services in some markets.
Nonetheless, the home video rental market has continued to grow significantly
and we believe that home video rental continues to enjoy significant
competitive advantages over alternative home movie delivery systems.  These
advantages include initial periods of exclusivity provided by the studios
before movies are released to these competing distribution channels, broader
arrays of movie titles from which customers can make their selections and the
ability of customers to control the timing and manner of their movie viewing
(including the ability to pause, rewind and fast forward movies without
investing in digital recording systems).

We also believe movie studios have a significant interest in maintaining a
viable home video rental business because revenue generated from the retail
sales and rentals of movies represents the largest source of their revenue.
According to AMR, in 2000 home video represented approximately 55% of the
studios' domestic revenue, while pay-per-view represented only 2%.
Accordingly, the video retail industry provides movie studios with an important
distribution channel and revenue source for direct-to-video and their non-hit
movies as well as their hit movies.  In addition, the browsing characteristics
of the retail environment frequently result in consumers concurrently selecting
both hit and non-hit movie titles for rental or purchase.  As a result of these
factors, we believe that the movie studios are highly motivated to protect this
significant source of revenue, and accordingly, the home video rental and sell-
through markets enjoy a period of time in which they have the exclusive rights
to distribute a movie.  This period of exclusivity typically begins after a
film finishes its domestic theatrical run (usually five months after its
debut), in the case of theatrical releases, or upon its release to video,
in the case of direct-to-video releases, and lasts for 30 to 90 days
thereafter.  This period of exclusivity is intended to maximize revenue to the
movie studio prior to a movie being released to other distribution channels,
including pay-per-view, video-on-demand and television, and provides what we
believe is a significant competitive advantage.

In addition, we believe substantial technological developments will be
necessary to allow pay-per-view television to match the viewing convenience and
selection available through video rental, and substantial capital expenditures
will be necessary to implement these systems.  In contrast, according to AMR,
approximately 95 million, or 93.5%, of all U.S. television households own a VCR
and more VCR's were sold in 2000 than in any previous year, while AMR predicts
the number of DVD households will reach approximately 50% of all domestic
households by 2003.  The studios are experiencing significant growth in
revenues as a result of DVD, which we believe they are highly motivated to
protect.  Although we do not believe cable television, V.O.D. or other
distribution channels represent a near-term competitive threat to our business,
technological advances or changes in the manner in which movies are marketed,
including in particular the day and date release of movie titles to pay-per-
view, including direct broadcast satellite (DBS), cable television or other
distribution channels, could make these technologies more attractive and
economical, which could harm our business.  See Part II, Item 7, under the
heading "Cautionary Statements" included in this report on Form 10-K.


SEASONALITY

The video retail industry generally experiences relative revenue declines in
April and May, due in part to the change to Daylight Savings Time and to
improved weather, and in September and October, due in part to the start of
school and introduction of new television programs.  We believe these
seasonality trends will continue.


EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2001, we had approximately 22,660 employees, of which 21,685
were in the retail stores and zone offices and the remainder in our corporate
administrative, and warehousing operations.

Store managers report to district managers who supervise the operations of the
stores.  The district managers report to regional managers, who report directly
to the Vice President of Operations for each zone office.  The corporate
support staff periodically has meetings with zone personnel, regional
managers, district managers and store managers to review operations.  None of
our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and employee
relations are considered to be excellent.


SERVICE MARKS

We own United States federal registrations for the service marks "Hollywood
Video", "Hollywood Entertainment", "Hollywood Video Superstores", "Game Crazy"
and "Reel.com." We consider our service marks important to our continued
success. This report on Form 10-K references and depicts certain trademarks,
service marks and trade names of other companies.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

As of December 31, 2001, Hollywood's stores by location are as follows:

                           HOLLYWOOD ENTERTAINMENT
                       NUMBER OF VIDEO STORES BY STATE

Alabama                         13           Nebraska                        14
Arizona                         57           Nevada                          27
Arkansas                         9           New Hampshire                    1
California                     308           New Jersey                      31
Colorado                        30           New Mexico                      10
Connecticut                     14           New York                        71
Delaware                         1           North Carolina                  28
Florida                         74           North Dakota                     3
Georgia                         38           Ohio                            80
Idaho                           12           Oklahoma                        21
Illinois                        91           Oregon                          64
Indiana                         38           Pennsylvania                    74
Iowa                            10           Rhode Island                     7
Kansas                          14           South Carolina                  13
Kentucky                        17           South Dakota                     3
Louisiana                       15           Tennessee                       35
Maine                            2           Texas                          172
Maryland                        29           Utah                            33
Massachusetts                   39           Virginia                        40
Michigan                        61           Washington                      86
Minnesota                       38           Washington, D.C.                 2
Mississippi                      8           West Virginia                    1
Missouri                        33           Wisconsin                       32
Montana                          1           Wyoming                          1

Total Stores                                                              1,801
Total States (excluding Washington, D.C.)                                    47

We lease all of our stores, corporate offices, distribution centers and zone
offices under non-cancelable operating leases.  All of our stores have an
initial operating lease term of five to 15 years and most have options to renew
for between five and 15 additional years.  Most of the store leases are "triple
net," requiring us to pay all taxes, insurance and common area maintenance
expenses associated with the properties.

Our corporate headquarters are located at 9275 Southwest Peyton Lane,
Wilsonville, Oregon, and consist of approximately 123,000 square feet of leased
space.  The lease expires in November 2008.  We have two warehouse facilities.
The first is located at 25600 Southwest Parkway Center Drive, Wilsonville,
Oregon and consists of approximately 175,000 square feet of leased space.  The
second is located at 501 Mason Road, LaVergne, Tennessee, and consists of
approximately 98,000 square feet of leased space.  These facilities are leased
pursuant to agreements that expire in November 2005 and June 2010,
respectively.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

During 1999, we were named as a defendant in three complaints which have been
coordinated into a single action entitled California Exemption Cases, Case No.
CV779511, in the Superior Court of the State of California in and for the
County of Santa Clara.  The plaintiffs are seeking to certify a statewide class
made up of certain current and former employees, which they claim are owed,
compensation for overtime wages, penalties and interest.  The plaintiffs are
also seeking attorneys fees and costs.  A class has not been certified.  We
believe that we have provided adequate reserves in connection with this claim
and intend to vigorously defend the action.

On November 15, 2000, 3PF, a subsidiary of Rentrak Corporation filed a demand
for arbitration with the American Arbitration Association, Case No. 75 181
00413 00 GLO against us and Reel.com, Inc. ("Reel").  3PF and Reel entered into
a Warehousing and Distribution Agreement on February 7, 2000, under which any
amounts owed by Reel.com were guaranteed by Hollywood under
a separate agreement.  3PF has alleged that Reel is in default under the
Agreement, has failed to perform material obligations under the Agreement, and
has failed to pay amounts due 3PF.  3PF seeks to recover approximately $4.8
million and consequential damages and attorneys fees and costs.  We believe
that we have provided adequate reserves in connection with this claim and
intend to vigorously defend the action.

We have been named as a party to various claims, disputes, legal actions and
other proceedings involving contracts, employment and various other matters,
including suits related to amounts charged to customers in connection with
additional rental periods.  We believe that we have provided adequate
reserves for these various contingencies and that the outcome of these matters
should not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
condition, results of operations or liquidity.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

At our Annual Meeting on December 17, 2001, the holders of the Company's
outstanding Common Stock elected each of Mark J. Wattles, James N. Cutler, Jr.,
Donald J. Ekman, S. Douglas Glendenning and William P. Zebe to our Board of
Directors, by the votes indicated below, to serve for the ensuing year.

Mark J. Wattles
  Shares for             38,481,145
  Shares withheld        7,546,971


James N. Cutler Jr.
  Shares for             45,082,991
  Shares withheld          945,125

Donald J. Ekman
  Shares for             38,659,966
  Shares withheld        7,368,150

S. Douglas Glendenning
  Shares for             45,054,504
  Shares withheld          973,612

William P. Zebe
  Shares for             45,262,028
  Shares withheld          766,088


ITEM 4(A).  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The following table sets forth certain information concerning our executive
officers as of December 31, 2001:

Name                                Age  Position

Mark J. Wattles                      41  Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive
                                         Officer, President and Director
Donald J. Ekman                      49  Executive Vice President of Legal
                                         Affairs, Secretary and Director
F. Bruce Giesbrecht                  42  Executive Vice President of Business
                                         Development
James A. Marcum                      42  Executive Vice President and Chief
                                         Financial Officer
Roger J. Osborne                     49  Executive Vice President of Operations
Scott R. Schultze                    47  Executive Vice President and Chief
                                         Operating Officer
- -------------

Mark J. Wattles founded Hollywood in June 1988 and has served as a director,
Chairman of the Board, and Chief Executive Officer since that time.  From June
1988 through September 1998, Mr. Wattles also served as President of Hollywood.
From August 1998 through June 2000, Mr. Wattles left his full time position at
Hollywood and served as CEO of Reel.com.  In August 2000, Mr. Wattles returned
full time to Hollywood and in January 2001 was re-appointed President of
Hollywood by the Board.  Mr. Wattles has been an owner and operator in the
video rental industry since 1985.  He has been a participant and key speaker in
several entertainment industry panels and conferences and currently serves as a
member of the Video Software Dealers Association (VSDA) Board of Directors.

Donald J. Ekman became a director of Hollywood in July 1993 and has been the
Executive Vice President of Legal Affairs since August 2000.  Before the
appointment to his current position, Mr. Ekman served as the General Counsel of
Hollywood beginning in March 1994 and as a Vice President from 1994 until he
became a Senior Vice President in May 1996.  Before joining Hollywood, Mr.
Ekman was in the private practice of law.

F. Bruce Giesbrecht was named Senior Vice President of Product Management in
January 1996, became Senior Vice President of Strategic Planning in January
1998, and Executive Vice President of Business Development in March 2000.  He
joined Hollywood in May 1993 as Vice President of Corporate Information Systems
and Chief Information Officer.  Mr. Giesbrecht was a founder of RamSoft, Inc.,
a software development company specializing in management systems for the video
industry, and served as its President.

James A. Marcum was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer in May 2001.  From October 2000 to January 2001, Mr. Marcum held the
position of Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Lids
Incorporated.  From June 1995 until May 2000, Mr. Marcum worked for Stage
Stores, Inc., most recently as Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer.  From
1983 to 1995, he held numerous positions at Melville Corporation, a
conglomerate of specialty retail chains, including Treasurer of the
corporation, his last assignment being Chief Financial Officer of Marshall's
Inc. Prior to 1983, Mr. Marcum was an auditor with Coopers and Lybrand.  Mr.
Marcum also serves as a lead director of the Bombay Corporation.

Roger J. Osborne was named Senior Vice President of Operations in January 1999
and became Executive Vice President of Operations in October 2000.  Prior to
being named Senior Vice President of Operations, he was the Executive Vice
President of J. Baker, Corporation, a major apparel and footwear retailer, and
President of its Work `N Gear Division since June 1997.  Before joining J.
Baker Corporation, Mr. Osborne was Senior Vice President and Zone Director for
Mid-West and East coast markets for Hollywood from November 1996 until May of
1997.  From 1993 until 1996, Mr. Osborne worked for J. Baker, Corporation,
serving as Senior Vice President and Director of its licensed shoe department
business from January 1995 to November 1996.  Mr. Osborne served in executive
capacities with Bata Shoe Company from 1988 until 1993 and with the Payless
Shoe Store division of May Company from 1975 until 1988.

Scott R. Schultze was named Chief Administrative Officer of Hollywood in July
2000 and became Chief Operating Officer in June 2001.  From 1988 until Mr.
Schultze joined Hollywood, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer for The Limited Stores, a division of the Limited Inc.  From
1986 to 1988, Mr. Schultze held the position of Vice President/Controller for
The May Company California and from 1977 to 1986, he held numerous positions at
Meier and Frank, a division of May Company, his last assignment being Vice
President of Finance.




                                    PART II


ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock since our initial
public offering in July 1993 and anticipate that future earnings will be
retained for the development of our business. Loan covenants contained in our
bank credit facilities and senior subordinated notes limit the amount of
dividends we may pay and the amount of stock we may repurchase (see
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition under the caption "Liquidity and Capital Resources").  As of December
31, 2001, these covenants effectively prohibited any dividends or stock
repurchases.  Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market
("Nasdaq") under the symbol "HLYW".  The following table sets forth the
quarterly high and low bid prices per share, as reported on Nasdaq.

                    2001                  2000
             ----------------------------------------
  Quarter       High     Low         High       Low
  -------    -------    ------    --------    -------
  Fourth       16.91     11.61        7.50       0.63

  Third        12.85      7.44        9.88       6.38

  Second        9.97      1.94        8.38       6.06

  First        $2.72     $1.00      $15.00      $6.56


As of March 15, 2002, there were 190 holders of record of our common stock, and
no shares of preferred stock were issued and outstanding.

In October 1998, we issued and sold 5,982,537 shares of common stock and
2,380,263 shares of Series A Redeemable Preferred Stock in connection with the
acquisition of Reel.com.  1,982,537 shares of the common stock were issued for
aggregate cash consideration of $26,764,250 and 1,380,263 shares of the Series
A Redeemable Preferred Stock were issued for aggregate cash consideration of
$18,633,551.  The balance of the shares of common stock and Series A Redeemable
Preferred Stock were issued in exchange for issued and outstanding shares of
Reel.com.  The issuance and sale of these shares was exempt from the
registration requirements of Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended (the "Securities Act"), by virtue of Section 4(2) thereof.  These
shares were issued and sold to a limited number of persons to whom disclosure
was provided and from whom "private placement" representations were obtained,
without the use of any general solicitation.  In addition, certificates
evidencing these shares bore legends indicating that they were issued without
registration and, accordingly, that resales thereof were restricted.  The
exemption provided by Section 4(2) also applied to the common stock issued upon
the conversion of the Series A Redeemable Preferred Shares in December 1998.

On January 24, 2000, we issued 200,000 shares of our common stock to Rentrak
Corporation as part of a litigation settlement. These shares were valued by us
at the time of their issuance at $11.438 per share, or $2,287,600. The issuance
of these shares was exempt from the registration requirements of Section 5 of
the Securities Act by virtue of Section 4(2) thereof. These shares were issued
and sold to a single entity to which disclosure was provided and from whom a
"private placement" representation was obtained, without the use of any general
solicitation.  In addition, a certificate evidencing these shares bore a legend
indicating that they were issued without registration and, accordingly, that
resales thereof were restricted.


ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The information presented below for, and as of the end of, each of the fiscal
years in the five-year period ended December 31, 2001 is derived from our
audited financial statements. The following information should be read in
conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operation
and Financial Condition."

Except as otherwise noted, the information in the table below reflects, among
other things, operating losses incurred by Reel.com from October 1, 1998, when
we acquired it, to June 12, 2000, when we discontinued its e-commerce
operations.

                                    Year Ended December 31,
                     --------------------------------------------------------
                        2001        2000        1999       1998        1997
                     ----------  ----------  ----------  ---------  ---------
OPERATING RESULTS:
Revenue              $1,379,503  $1,296,237  $1,096,841  $763,908   $ 500,501
                     ----------  ----------  ----------  ---------  ---------
Income (loss) from
 operations             119,277    (436,321)     (2,513)  (36,451)     23,303
                     ----------  ----------  ----------  ---------  ---------
Interest expense         56,546      62,302      45,691    33,355      14,302
                     ----------  ----------  ----------  ---------  ---------
Income (loss) before
 Extraordinary item
 and cumulative effect
 of a change in
 accounting principle   100,416    (530,040)    (49,858)  (50,464)      5,559
                     ----------  ----------  ----------  ---------  ---------
Net income (loss)       100,416    (530,040)    (51,302)  (50,464)      4,996
                     ----------  ----------  ----------  ---------  ---------
Net Income (Loss)
 Per Share Before
 Extraordinary Item
 and Cumulative
 Effect of a Change
 in Accounting
 Principle:
   Basic                $  2.05     $(11.48)     $(1.09)   $(1.30)      $0.15
   Diluted                 1.90      (11.48)      (1.09)    (1.30)       0.15
                     ----------  ----------  ----------  ---------  ---------
Net Income (Loss)
 Per Share:
   Basic                $  2.05     $(11.48)     $(1.13)   $(1.30)      $0.14
   Diluted                 1.90      (11.48)      (1.13)    (1.30)       0.13
                     ----------  ----------  ----------  ---------  ---------
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE SHEET DATA:
Rental inventory, net  $191,016    $168,462    $339,912   $259,255   $226,051
Property and
 equipment, net         270,586     323,666     382,345    328,182    234,497
Total assets            718,544     665,114   1,053,291    936,330    691,165
Long-term
 obligations(1)         514,002     536,401     533,906    392,145    233,496
Shareholders' equity
 (deficit)             (113,554)   (222,377)    304,529    347,591    291,938

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------



                                       Year Ended December 31,
                     -------------------------------------------------------
                        2001        2000       1999        1998       1997
                     ----------  ----------  ----------  ---------  --------
OPERATING DATA:
Number of stores at
 year end                 1,801       1,818       1,615      1,260        907
Weighted average stores
 open during the year     1,813       1,751       1,405      1,074        694
Comparable store
 revenue increase (2)        6%          2%         12%         8%         3%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
OTHER DATA:
Hollywood superstores
  EBITDA (3)            366,453     176,942     265,787    168,158   162,445
Reconciliation to
Adjusted EBITDA (4)
 -Add special
  charges (5)            (7,034)     44,673      26,885     99,910    26,320
 -Add non-cash
  expenses (6)           88,058     126,260      49,627     51,143    18,022
 -Less existing
  Store investment
  in new release
  inventory (7)        (252,749)   (173,787)   (137,794)  (189,814) (125,301)
                     ----------  ----------  ----------   --------  --------
Hollywood superstores
Adjusted EBITDA         194,728     174,088     204,505    129,397    81,486
Reel.com EBITDA(8)            -     (29,834)    (46,902)    (7,322)        -
                     ----------  ----------  ----------   --------  --------
Consolidated Adjusted
  EBITDA                194,728     144,254     157,603    122,075    81,486
                     ==========  ==========  ==========   ========  ========

Cash flows generated
 from (used in):
 Operating activities   273,793     248,871     177,151    246,641   176,478
 Investing activities  (216,949)   (255,822)   (320,338)  (438,411) (338,120)
 Financing activities   (21,302)      3,278     146,153    191,836   152,702
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1)  Includes the current portion of long-term obligations.

(2)  A store is comparable after it has been open and owned by the Company
     for 12 full months.  An acquired store converted to the Hollywood Video
     name store design is removed from the comparable store base when the
     conversion process is initiated and returned 12 full months after
     reopening.

(3)  EBITDA represents income (loss) from operations, before interest, tax,
     depreciation and amortization.  EBITDA should not be viewed as a measure
     of financial performance under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
     (GAAP) or as a substitute for GAAP measurements, such as net income or
     cash flow from operations.  This calculation of EBITDA is not necessarily
     comparable to reported EBITDA of other companies due to the lack of a
     uniform definition of EBITDA. Hollywood superstores EBITDA excludes
     Reel.com EBITDA.

(4)  Adjusted EBITDA represents income (loss) from operations, before interest,
     tax, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), plus certain special
     charges, plus non-cash expenses minus, the cost of replenishing new
     release rental inventory for existing stores, which is capitalized.
     Adjusted EBITDA should not be viewed as a measure of financial performance
     under GAAP or as substitute for GAAP measurements such as net income or
     cash flow from operations.  Our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA is not
     necessarily comparable to reported Adjusted EBITDA of other companies due
     to the lack of uniform definitions of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA.
     Hollywood superstores Adjusted EBITDA excludes Reel.com Adjusted EBITDA.


(5)  These special charges include:

     -2001:  $3.3 million reversal of an accrual for restructuring expenses for
      the closure of Reel.com and $3.8 million reversal of an accrual for
      restructuring expenses related to the 2000 Store Closure Plan.
     -2000:  $11.1 million accrued for the settlement of revenue sharing
      contract disputes, $10.5 million accrued for the settlements of pending
      litigation, $9.5 million accrued for lease termination fees, $7.3 million
      accrued for store closure costs, $3.5 million for unearned retention
      bonuses paid to key members of management and $2.7 million in severance
      agreements;
     -1999: litigation settlement charges of $25.4 million related to the
      settlement of lawsuits with Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment and
      Rentrak Corporation and a $1.4 million charge for the cumulative effect
      of a change in accounting principle (see Note 1 to the Consolidated
      Financial Statements);
     -1998: an inventory write-down of $99.9 million;
     -1997: a litigation settlement of $18.9 million, an inventory write-down
      of $2.3 million, $4.6 million related to a failed self-tender offer, and
      $.6 million from a loss on early extinguishment of debt.

(6)  Expenses which were non-cash in nature including tape loss, the book
     cost of previously-viewed movies sold, accounts receivable reserves, net
     loss on long-term asset disposals and write-downs of merchandise inventory
     to net realizable value.

(7)  This represents existing store purchases of new release tapes, games and
     DVD's that are considered investing activities on the statement of cash
     flows.  This is in addition to the cost of product represented by revenue
     sharing expense already included in the statement of operations.

(8)  The year 2000 excludes the restructuring charge of $67.7 million for the
     discontinuation of e-commerce operations (see Note 11 to the Consolidated
     Financial Statements).



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
        AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires us to make
judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the
Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes.  Note 1 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements describes the significant accounting policies
and methods used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our judgments, assumptions and estimates affect, among other things, the
amounts of: receivables; rental and merchandise inventories; property and
equipment, net; goodwill, net; deferred income tax assets; other liabilities;
revenue; cost of revenue; and operating costs and expenses. We base our
judgments, assumptions and estimates on historical experience and on various
other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual
results could differ significantly from amounts based on our judgments,
assumption and estimates.  The following critical accounting policies involve
significant judgments, assumptions and estimates, which affect amounts recorded
in the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Revenue Recognition

We recognize revenue upon the rental and sale of our products. Rental revenue
for extended rental periods (when the customer chooses to keep the product
beyond the original rental period) is recognized when the extended rental
period begins. Revenue recorded for extended rental periods is net of estimated
amounts that we do not anticipate collecting based upon historical collection
experience. We continuously monitor actual collections. Estimates are revised
when we believe it is appropriate in light of actual collection rates and other
relevant circumstances. Historically, actual collections have approximated the
related net revenue recorded. However, if actual collections in the future are
less than the related net revenue recorded, our results of operations would be
adversely affected.

Amortization of Rental Inventory

Rental inventory, which includes VHS videocassettes, DVDs and video games, is
stated at cost and amortized over its estimated useful life to an estimated
residual value.  Our estimates of useful lives and residual values affect the
amounts of amortization recorded, which in turn affects the carrying value of
our rental inventory and cost of rental (and, upon the transfer of previously
viewed items from rental inventory to merchandise inventory, the carrying value
of our merchandise inventory and cost of product).  For new release tapes
acquired for rental under revenue sharing arrangements, the studios' share of
rental revenue is expensed as revenue is earned net of an average estimated
interim residual value. Tapes, DVDs and video games acquired for rental at
fixed prices are amortized to estimated interim residual values in four months
and then to estimated ending residual values over their remaining estimated
useful lives.  Purchases of catalog products are amortized on a straight-line
basis over their estimated useful lives to their estimated ending residual
values.  Due to the numerous variables associated with the judgments and
assumptions we make in estimating useful lives and residual values of these
items, and the effects of changes in circumstances affecting these estimates
(including the effects of competing products and technologies and actual
selling prices obtainable for previously viewed product), both the precision
and reliability of the resulting estimates are subject to substantial
uncertainties and, as additional information becomes known, we may change our
estimates significantly. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2000, a number
of observations led us to change our estimates of rental inventory lives and
residual values, which resulted in a $164.3 million increase to amortization
expense in that quarter (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Goodwill

We review long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not
be recoverable.  We periodically review and monitor our internal management
reports for indicators of impairment.  We consider a trend of unsatisfactory
operating results that are not in line with management's expectations to be a
primary indicator of potential impairment.  When an indicator of impairment is
noted, assets are evaluated for impairment at the lowest level for which there
are identifiable cash flows (e.g., at the store level).  We deem a store to be
impaired if a forecast of undiscounted future operating cash flows directly
related to the store, including estimated disposal value, if any, is less than
the asset carrying amount.  If a store is determined to be impaired, the loss
is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount on our balance sheet of
the store exceeds its fair value.  Fair value is estimated using a discounted
future cash flow valuation technique similar to that used by management in
making a new investment decision.  Considerable management judgment and
assumptions are necessary to estimate discounted future cash flows.  Due to the
numerous variables associated with our judgments and assumptions relating to
the valuation of our assets in these circumstances, and the effects of changes
in circumstances affecting these valuations, both the precision and reliability
of the resulting estimates of the related impairment charges are subject to
substantial uncertainties and, as additional information becomes known, our
estimates may change significantly.

Income Taxes

We calculate income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for
Income Taxes," which requires recognition of deferred tax liabilities and
assets for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been
included in our financial statements and tax returns.  Valuation allowances are
established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets, including temporary
timing differences and net operating loss carryforwards, to the amount expected
to be realized in the future.  In the fourth quarter of 2000, in light of
significant doubt that existed regarding our future income and therefore our
ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards, we recorded a $211.2
million valuation allowance on our $211.2 million net deferred tax asset.  In
2001, as a result of our operating performance for the year, as well as
anticipated future operating performance, we determined that it was more likely
than not that certain future tax benefits would be realized. As such, we
reversed $63.4 million of this valuation allowance, which resulted in a $63.4
million increase in net income and a corresponding decrease in our
shareholders' deficit. The valuation allowance of $147.8 million as of December
31, 2001 represents an allowance for the uncertainty as to the future
realization of deferred tax assets based upon our revised expectations.  While
changes in the valuation allowance have no effect on the amount of income tax
we pay or on our cash flows, the effects on our reported income and
shareholders' equity may be viewed by some investors and potential lenders as
significant. Due to the numerous variables associated with our judgments,
assumptions and estimates relating to the valuation of our deferred tax assets,
and the effects of changes in circumstances affecting these valuations, both
the precision and reliability of the resulting estimates are subject to
substantial uncertainties and, as additional information becomes known, we may
change our estimates significantly.

Legal Contingencies

Our estimates of our loss contingencies for legal proceedings are based on
various judgments and assumptions regarding the potential resolution or
disposition of the underlying claims and associated costs.  Due to the numerous
variables associated with these judgments and assumptions, both the precision
and reliability of the resulting estimates of the related loss contingencies
are subject to substantial uncertainties.  We regularly monitor our estimated
exposure to these contingencies and, as additional information becomes known,
may change our estimates significantly.


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Summary Results of Operations

Our net income for 2001 was $100.4 million compared to a net loss of $530.0
million in 2000 and a net loss of $51.3 million in 1999. The improvement in
operating results was primarily the result of improved operating performance in
our existing store base, adjustments to our valuation allowance on our net
deferred income tax asset (see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements) and closing down the e-commerce operations at Reel.com in June of
2000. The large net loss in 2000 was primarily the result of special charges
summarized in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The following table sets forth (i) results of operations data expressed as a
percentage of total revenue and (ii) gross margin data.

                                             Year Ended December 31,
                                         ------------------------------
                                           2001       2000       1999
                                         --------   --------   --------
  Revenue:
    Rental revenue                          82.7%      82.6%      81.5%
    Product sales                           17.3%      17.4%      18.5%
                                         --------   --------   --------
                                           100.0%     100.0%     100.0%
                                         --------   --------   --------
  Cost of revenue:
   Cost of rental                           27.2%      44.8%      25.4%
   Cost of product                          12.3%      15.8%      14.1%
                                         --------   --------   --------
                                            39.5%      60.6%      39.5%
                                         --------   --------   --------
  Gross margin                              60.5%      39.4%      60.5%

  Operating costs and expenses:
    Operating and selling                   45.0%      55.0%      47.7%
    General and administrative               7.0%       8.5%       7.8%
    Restructuring charge for closure
     of internet business                   (0.2%)      3.6%          -
    Restructuring charge for store
     closures                               (0.3%)      1.3%          -
    Amortization of intangibles              0.4%       4.6%       5.2%
                                         --------   --------   --------
                                            51.9%      73.0%      60.7%
                                         --------   --------   --------

 Income (loss) from operations               8.6%     (33.6%)     (0.2%)
  Nonoperating expense                      (4.0%)     (4.8%)     (4.2%)
                                         --------   --------   --------
  Income (loss) before income taxes
   and cumulative effect adjustment          4.6%     (38.4%)     (4.4%)
  (Provision for) benefit from income
   taxes                                     2.7%      (2.4%)     (0.2%)
                                         --------   --------   --------
  Income (loss) before cumulative
   effect adjustment                         7.3%     (40.8%)     (4.6%)
  Cumulative effect of a change in
   accounting principle                         -          -      (0.1%)
                                         --------   --------   --------
  Net income (loss)                          7.3%     (40.8%)     (4.7%)
                                         ========   ========   ========

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Other data:
   Rental gross margin (1)                  67.1%      45.8%      68.8%
   Product gross margin (2)                 29.0%       9.2%      23.8%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
   (1) Rental gross margin as a percentage of rental revenues.
   (2) Product gross margin as a percentage of product revenues.


REVENUE

Revenue increased by $83.3 million, or 6.4%, in 2001 compared to 2000,
primarily due to an increase of 6% in comparable store revenue.  Also favorably
impacting revenue was an additional 62 weighted average number of stores. The
closure of Reel.com in June 2000, which had total revenue of $26.3 million in
2000, unfavorably impacted revenue.  Revenue increased by $199.4 million, or
18.2% in 2000 compared to 1999, primarily due to the addition of 203 new
superstores in 2000.  Revenue was also favorably impacted by an increase of 2%
in comparable store revenue in 2000. We ended 2001 with 1,801 superstores
operating in 47 states, compared to 1,818 stores operating in 47 states at the
end of 2000 and 1,615 stores operating in 44 states at the end of 1999. We
currently offer a 5-day rental program on all products in the majority of our
stores. New release videos and all DVDs rent for $3.79. Catalog videos rent for
$1.99. Since the fourth quarter of 1999, we have not increased prices on new
release videos, DVDs and catalog videos. Video games rent for $4.99 and $5.99,
with the newer platforms renting for the higher amount. Customers who choose
not to return movies within the applicable rental period are deemed to have
commenced a new rental period of equal length at the same price.  Rental
revenue from initial rental periods was $801 million, $937 million and $991
million for 1999, 2000 and 2001, respectively.  Rental revenue from extended
rental periods was $93 million, $134 million and $150 million for 1999, 2000
and 2001, respectively.


GROSS MARGIN

Rental Margins

Rental gross margin as a percentage of rental revenue increased to 67.1% in
2001 from 45.8% in 2000. During the fourth quarter of 2000, we made several key
observations that led us to change estimates regarding rental inventory lives
and residual values. As a result of the growing demand for DVDs, the estimated
residual value of catalog VHS cassettes was reduced from $6.00 to $2.00 and the
estimated useful life was reduced from five years to one year. We adopted the
changes in estimate prospectively on October 1, 2000, and recorded a charge of
$164.3 million. By applying these changes prospectively, we also recorded
incremental depreciation expense of approximately $52 million and $18 million
in the fourth quarter of 2000, and in the first three quarters of 2001,
respectively. Excluding the charge and the respective incremental depreciation
expense amounts, margins increased to 68.7% in 2001 from 66.0% in 2000
primarily due to a shift in revenue from VHS to DVDs, which typically have
higher margins.

Rental gross margin as a percentage of rental revenue decreased to 45.8% in
2000 from 68.8% in 1999, primarily due to the charge and incremental
depreciation associated with the change in estimates discussed above.

Product Margins

Product gross margin as a percentage of product sales increased to 29.0% in
2001 from 9.2% in 2000. Product margins in 2000 were negatively impacted by a
$20.8 million charge for the discontinuation of e-commerce operations at
Reel.com and a $8.6 million charge to value the inventory on hand at December
31, 2000 at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Excluding the operations
of Reel.com and the $8.6 million charge, product margins increased to 29.0% in
2001 from 24.4% in 2000, primarily due to improved margins on previously-viewed
movie sales. Compared to 2000, margins on previously-viewed product for 2001
increased due to the depreciation change in estimate, which resulted in lower
residual values being charged to cost of product sales.

Product gross margin as a percentage of product sales decreased to 9.2% in 2000
from 23.8% in 1999, primarily due to the charges noted above. Excluding the
operations of Reel.com and the $8.6 million charge, product margins decreased
to 24.4% in 2000 from 31.8% in 1999, primarily due to a decrease in the average
sales price of previously-viewed movies for sale.


OPERATING COSTS AND EXPENSES

Operating and Selling

Total operating and selling expenses of $621.3 million in 2001 decreased $92.1
million from $713.4 million in 2000.  Total operating and selling expenses as a
percentage of total revenues decreased to 45.0% in 2001 from 55.0% in 2000.
Impacting operating and selling expense in 2000 was a $44.3 million charge for
impaired property and equipment (See Note 8 to Consolidated Financial
Statements) and Reel.com operating expenses of $27.4 million.  Excluding the
impairment charge and operating expenses of Reel.com, operating and selling
expenses decreased $20.4 million for 2001 as compared to 2000. The decrease was
driven by decreases in advertising expense of $20.5 million, other operating
and selling expenses of $11.9 million and depreciation expense of $8.0 million,
which were partially offset by an increase in store wages of $11.8 million and
occupancy costs of $8.2 million. The decrease in advertising expense was the
result of the discontinuation of a mass media advertising campaign that ran in
2000. In 2001, we returned to a more cost-effective direct mail strategy. The
increases in store wages and occupancy costs were primarily due to the addition
of 62 weighted average stores when compared to the prior year.

Total operating and selling expenses of $713.4 million in 2000 increased $190.7
million from $522.7 million in 1999.  Total operating and selling expenses as a
percentage of total revenues increased to 55.0% in 2000 from 47.7% in 1999. The
increase in total operating and selling expenses was due to increases in
depreciation expense of $57.0 million (primarily caused by the impairment
charge noted above), store wages of $44.9 million, occupancy costs of $42.3
million, advertising expenses of $24.4 million, and other store operating
expenses of $33.6 million, which were offset by an $11.4 million decrease in
expenses incurred by Reel.com. The decrease in Reel.com expenses was primarily
due to operating Reel.com for six months in 2000 compared to the entire year in
1999.  The increases in store wages, occupancy costs, and other store operating
expenses were primarily due to the increase in the number of superstores
operated by us. We operated 1,818 superstores at December 31, 2000 compared
with 1,615 superstores at the end of 1999. Advertising expense was higher due
to an increase in national television campaigns as compared to prior years.

Restructuring for Closure of Internet Business

On June 12, 2000, we announced that we would close down the e-commerce business
of Reel.com. Although we had developed a leading web-site over the seven
quarters after Reel.com was purchased in October of 1998, Reel.com's business
model of rapid customer acquisition led to large operating losses and required
significant cash funding.  Due to market conditions, we were unable to obtain
outside financing for Reel.com, and could not justify continued funding from
our superstore cash flow. On June 13, 2000, we terminated the employment of
approximately 200 of Reel.com's 240 employees, and paid $1.9 million in
involuntary termination benefits. The remaining employees have since been
terminated or integrated into Hollywood Entertainment.

As a result of the discontinuation of Reel.com's e-commerce operations, we
recorded a total charge of $69.3 million in the second quarter of 2000, of
which $48.5 million was classified as a restructuring charge on the
consolidated statement of operations and $20.8 million was included in cost of
product sales. The charge was reduced by $1.6 million to $46.9 million in the
fourth quarter of 2000, and also reduced by $3.3 million to $43.6 million in
the fourth quarter of 2001, because we were able to negotiate termination of
certain obligations and lease commitments more favorably than originally
anticipated.

The restructuring charge line item included $1.9 million of severance and
benefits paid on June 13, 2000, $19.3 million of asset impairment charges, and
$22.4 million (net of reductions) of accrued liabilities.  The asset impairment
charges included $14.9 million to write off the remaining goodwill associated
with the acquisition of Reel.com, and $4.4 million to write down equipment,
leasehold improvements, prepaid expenses and accounts receivable to their net
realizable values. Amounts accrued included $17.3 (net of reductions) million
for contractual obligations, lease commitments and anticipated legal claims
against the Company and $5.1 (net of reductions) million for legal, financial,
and other professional services incurred as a direct result of the closure of
Reel.com. As of December 31, 2001, we had paid $7.4 million of the accrued
amounts.

Restructuring charge for store closures

In December 2000, we approved a restructuring plan involving the closure and
disposition of 43 stores that were not operating to our expectations (the
"Restructuring Plan"). In the fourth quarter of 2000, we recorded charges
aggregating $16.9 million, including an $8.0 million write down of property and
equipment, a $1.5 million write down of goodwill and an accrual for store
closing costs of $7.4 million.  The established reserve for store closing costs
is for lease termination fees and other store closure costs. We have
liquidated, and plan to continue liquidating, related store inventories through
store closing sales; any remaining product will be used in other stores.

Revenue during the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999 for the stores
included in the Restructuring Plan was approximately $15.5 million and $13.4
million, respectively.  Operating income or loss (defined as income or loss
before interest expense and income taxes) during the years ended December 31,
2000 and 1999 for the stores included in the Restructuring Plan were
approximately $1.8 million loss and $0.5 million loss, respectively. For the
twelve months ended December 31, 2001 these stores recorded a combined
operating loss of $2.5 million that is included in the Consolidated Statement
of Operations.

As of December 31, 2001, we had closed 12 of the 43 scheduled stores that we
included in the Restructuring Plan. We incurred $329,867 in expenses during the
twelve months ended December 31, 2001 related to the closures and received
$450,000 to exit one of the leases.

In December of 2001, we amended the Restructuring Plan and removed 16 stores
from the closure list. We anticipate closing the remaining 15 stores in 2002.
In accordance with the amended plan, and updated estimates of closing costs, we
reversed $3.8 million of the original $16.9 million charge, leaving a $3.7
million accrual balance at December 31, 2001 for store closing costs.

General and Administrative

Total general and administrative expenses of $96.4 million in 2001 decreased
$13.8 million from $110.2 million in 2000.  Total general and administrative
expenses as a percentage of total revenue decreased to 7.0% in 2001 compared to
8.5% in 2000.  Included in general and administrative expenses in 2000 were
employee loans written off or fully reserved for as doubtful for $17.3 million;
reserves established for pending litigation for $10.5 million and Reel.com
general and administrative expenses of $5.1 million.  Included in general and
administrative expenses in 2001 were $4.8 million of non-cash compensation
expense related to a stock grant to our Chief Executive Officer as part of a
three-year employment agreement. Also included was $4.1 million of non-cash
stock compensation associated with other grants under our stock option plans.
Excluding the adjustments noted above, general and administrative expenses
increased as a percentage of revenue to 6.3% in 2001 compared to 6.0% in the
prior year.  We made the decision to invest in certain elements of the
business, such as the store field supervision structure, the loss prevention
function and human resources.  We believe these investments will have a direct
impact on the business by improving the level of execution.

Total general administrative expenses of $110.2 million increased $24.3 million
from $85.9 million in 1999.  Total general and administrative expenses as a
percentage of total revenue increased to 8.5% in 2000 compared to 7.8% in 1999.
Included in general and administrative expenses in 1999 is a special charge of
$25.4 million for legal and settlement charges associated with the settlement
of two lawsuits. Excluding these charges, general and administrative expenses
increased by $49.7 million in 2000, primarily due to employee loans written off
or fully reserved for as doubtful, other payroll and related costs, and
establishing reserves for pending litigation, offset by a $2.1 million decrease
in overhead costs associated with Reel.com.  The decrease in Reel.com expenses
was primarily due to operating Reel.com for only six months in 2000 compared to
the entire year in 1999.

Amortization of Intangibles

Amortization of intangibles decreased by $54.9 million in 2001 compared to
2000. The decrease was primarily due to an impairment charge of $30.0 million
taken in the fourth quarter of 2000 related to acquired store goodwill as
discussed in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the closure in
June of 2000 of Reel.com, which had $22.7 million of amortization expense in
the prior year. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a
discussion of the discontinuation of Reel.com's e-commerce operations and the
resulting charges.

Amortization of intangibles increased by $3.0 million in 2000 compared to 1999,
primarily due to an impairment charge of $30 million related to goodwill on
several acquired stores as discussed in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, as partially offset by a decrease in amortization of goodwill
associated with the Reel.com acquisition.


NON-OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE), NET

Interest expense, net of interest income, decreased in 2001 compared to 2000,
primarily due to decreased levels of revolving credit borrowings and lower
interest rates.  Interest expense, net of interest income, increased in 2000
compared to 1999, due to increased revolving credit borrowings and higher
interest rates and the issuance in June 1999 of an additional $50 million of
10 5/8% senior subordinated notes.


INCOME TAXES

Our effective tax rate was a benefit of 59.0% in 2001 compared to a provision
of 6.3% in 2000 and a provision of 3.9% in 1999 which varies from the federal
statutory rate as a result of non-deductible executive compensation, net non-
deductible option grant compensation, non-deductible goodwill amortization
associated with the Reel.com acquisition, state income taxes and deferred tax
valuation allowances.  Valuation allowances reduce deferred income tax balances
to the approximate amount of recoverable income taxes based on assessments of
taxable income within the carryback or carryforward periods for each year.


CHANGE IN EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE

In April 1998, SOP 98-5, "Reporting on the Cost of Start-up Activities" was
finalized, which requires that cost incurred for start-up activities, such as
store openings, be expensed as incurred.  We adopted SOP 98-5 effective January
1, 1999.  The cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle was to
increase net loss by $1.4 million, net of tax benefit.


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Overview

During 2000, we experienced a number of significant events with respect to our
liquidity and capital situation. We began the year growing at the average rate
of one store per day, as well as funding significant cash losses at Reel.com.
In order to meet the funding needs to continue at this growth rate, our then-
existing $300.0 million revolving credit facility needed to be expanded or
refinanced. During early 2000, we attempted to refinance this facility. In
March 2000, we received an underwritten commitment from a group of banks for a
new $375.0 million credit facility. However, syndication of this new facility
failed in May 2000 primarily due to market conditions (including lenders'
concerns with losses at Reel.com and the business of Internet companies
generally) and the significant capital needed to fund our aggressive growth.
Without the availability of new funding, we were faced with a requirement to
begin reducing the maximum borrowing capacity under the $300.0 million
revolving credit facility, starting with a $37.5 million reduction on December
5, 2000 and quarterly reductions of $37.5 million in each quarter thereafter,
and to make such payments as would be necessary to cause the borrowings
outstanding under the facility to be less than or equal to the reduced
borrowing capacity. In order to meet this obligation, we needed to make
significant changes to our growth plans.

As part of these changes, in June of 2000, we closed the e-commerce business at
Reel.com, thereby stopping its cash losses. Furthermore, we made the decision
to curtail our new store growth and not sign new leases for the remainder of
the year. We believe that by discontinuing Reel.com's e-commerce operations
(which were losing money at an annual run rate of approximately $60.0 million
in early 2000), and by largely curtailing our new store growth (in which we
were investing at an annual run rate of approximately $140.0 million in early
2000), we have substantially reduced our ongoing uses of cash from that of
early 2000 and before.

On June 8, 2000, we obtained a waiver for non-compliance with certain covenants
under the revolving credit facility, including a leverage ratio covenant and a
covenant regarding loans to affiliated persons. This temporary waiver was
extended on June 20, 2000 and again on July 28, 2000. The revolving credit
facility was amended on August 4, 2000 to permanently amend these covenants. As
consideration for the requested amendment, we agreed to certain new covenants
which, among other things, placed restrictions on capital expenditures and
store growth. These amendments did not affect the amortization schedule of the
revolving credit facility.

As of December 31, 2000, we were in violation of covenants under the revolving
credit facility regarding our tangible net worth ratio, our leverage ratio and
our interest coverage ratio. Although we obtained a waiver for the violations,
the waiver was scheduled to expire on May 5, 2001. Because it was probable we
would incur covenant violations after May 5, 2001 without a restructured
agreement, in accordance with FAS 78, Classification of Obligations That Are
Callable by the Creditor, we reclassified $112.5 million of borrowings under
the revolving credit facility as current liabilities on our consolidated
balance sheet as of December 31, 2000, such that the entire $245.0 million of
borrowings then outstanding under the revolving credit facility were classified
as current liabilities as of that date. As a result of the uncertainty
regarding our ability to negotiate a permanent amendment to the revolving
credit facility and the fact that we had net losses in 2000, 1999, and 1998 and
at December 31, 2000 had a shareholders deficit of $222.4 million, our
independent accountants included a going concern paragraph in their report on
our Consolidated Financial Statements for 2000.

Because it was doubtful that we would be able to meet the scheduled 2001
revolving credit facility amortization of $150.0 million, we began negotiating
a restructured amortization schedule with our lenders. On March 6, 2001, we
made a $6.0 million amortization payment and our lenders agreed to defer $31.5
million of the $37.5 million total due on that date until May 5, 2001. During
the deferral period we and our lenders worked toward a permanent change in the
amortization schedule to better match bank debt pay-down with our business
plan. On May 5, 2001, we made a $1.0 million amortization payment and our
lenders agreed to defer $30.5 until June 5, 2001.

On June 5, 2001, we amended our revolving credit facility and, in connection
therewith, paid to the lenders fees of approximately $3.8 million. The
amendment extended the maturity of the facility from September 5, 2002 to
December 23, 2003, and created a new amortization payment schedule. In
connection with the amendment, $201.5 million of the borrowings outstanding
under the revolving credit facility were reclassified as long-term obligations
on the consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2001. As a result of the
amendment, our independent accountants removed the going concern paragraph from
their report. The interest rate applicable to borrowings under the amended
facility was set at IBOR plus 5.0%, subject to reduction upon the achievement
of specified performance targets.

We generate substantial operating cash flow because most of our revenue is
received in cash from the rental and sales of videocassettes, DVDs and games.
The amount of cash generated from operations in 2001 funded our debt service
requirements and all capital expenditures with sufficient cash left over to
reduce accounts payable by $32.9 million. At December 31, 2001 we had $38.8
million of cash and cash equivalents on hand.

On December 7, 2001, we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a
shelf registration statement covering up to $110,000,000 of our common stock
(together with up to an additional $16,500,000 of our common stock for purposes
of satisfying any over-allotment options) and up to $300,000,000 of non-
convertible debt securities. On December 10, 2001, we announced that we
received a fully underwritten commitment from UBS Warburg LLC for a new bank
credit facility. On February 14, 2002 the shelf registration statement became
effective.

On March 11, 2002, we completed a public offering of 8,050,000 shares of our
common stock resulting in proceeds of $120.8 million before underwriting fees
and expenses, of which $114 million was applied to the repayment of borrowings
under our prior revolving credit facility.

On March 18, 2002, we obtained new senior bank credit facilities from a
syndicate of lenders led by UBS Warburg LLC consisting of a $150.0 million
senior secured term facility maturing in 2004 and a $25.0 million senior
secured revolving credit facility maturing in 2004. We applied a portion of
initial borrowings thereunder to repay all remaining borrowings under our prior
revolving credit facility (which was then terminated). The maturity of the new
facilities will automatically be extended to 2006 if our existing $250 million
senior subordinated notes are refinanced prior to February 2004 with a maturity
date beyond 2006 (which, subject to market conditions and other relevant
factors, we presently expect to accomplish through the issuance of new senior
subordinated notes in 2002 as contemplated in our shelf registration
statement). As a result of the early retirement of our prior revolving credit
facilities, we anticipate recording an extraordinary charge of approximately
$3.5 million in the first quarter of 2002.

The credit agreement governing the new facilities contains customary
representations, warranties, covenants (including financial covenants) and
events of default. The financial covenants, some of which may become more
restrictive over time, include a (1) maximum debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio, (2)
minimum interest coverage test, and (3) minimum fixed charge coverage test
(determined in each case on the basis of the definitions and other provisions
set forth in such credit agreement). Currently, these financial covenants
require us to maintain (1) a ratio of debt to adjusted EBITDA of 3.0 to 1.0 or
less, (2) a ratio of adjusted EBITDA to interest expense of 3.0 to 1.0 or
greater, and (3) a ratio of adjusted EBITDA, plus rent expense, to fixed
charges of at least 1.0 to 1.0.

We believe that our cash on hand, cash flow from operations, revolving credit
availability and other capital resources will be sufficient to fund the cash
requirements associated with our present operations for the foreseeable future.
We continue to analyze our strategic plan and capital structure and to consider
additional financing transactions, including possible issuances of debt
securities, as sources of incremental liquidity.

Cash Provided by Operating Activities

Net cash flow provided by operating activities increased by $25 million in 2001
compared to 2000. Excluding the effects of changes in accounts payable, our net
cash flow from operations would have increased by $137 million or 81% in 2001.
The increase was due to the discontinuation of e-commerce operations at
Reel.com and improved operating performance in our existing store base. The
increase was partially offset by net pay-downs of accounts payable in 2001 of
$33 million compared to a net increase in accounts payable in 2000 of $79
million.

We lease all of our stores, corporate offices, distribution centers and zone
offices under non-cancelable operating leases.  All of our stores have an
initial operating lease term of five to 15 years and most have options to renew
for between five and 15 additional years. At December 31, 2001, the future
minimum annual rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases were as
follows:

               ------------------------------
                                   Operating
               Year Ending          Leases
               December 31,     (in thousands)
               ------------------------------
               2002                 217,491
               2003                 215,895
               2004                 210,362
               2005                 199,976
               2006                 179,808
               Thereafter           538,020


Cash Used in Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities decreased by $39 million, or 15%, from
$256 million in 2000 to $217 million in 2001. The decrease is primarily due to
fewer new store openings in 2001.  We opened 208 new stores in 2000 and only
six stores in 2001.

Following is a table summarizing our cash used in investing activities for the
last three years (in thousands):
                                             2001        2000      1999
                                          ---------  ---------  ---------
Rental Inventory:
 New release replenishment                $ 252,749  $ 173,787  $ 137,794
 New store and other investments             24,401     75,636     93,696
 Book value of transfers to merchandise
  inventory and loss                        (74,360)   (72,670)   (45,613)
                                          ---------  ---------  ---------
Purchases of rental inventory, net        $ 202,790  $ 176,753  $ 185,877
                                          ---------  ---------  ---------
Purchase of property and
 equipment, net                               8,802     77,639    112,258
Investment in businesses acquired                 -          -     17,434
Increase in intangibles and other
 assets                                       5,357      1,430      4,769
                                          ---------  ---------  ---------
  Total cash used in investing            $ 216,949  $ 255,822  $ 320,338
                                          =========  =========  =========

New release replenishment includes the cost of purchases of new release video
tapes, DVDs and games for existing stores and the estimated interim residual
value of video tapes and DVDs acquired under revenue sharing arrangements (see
Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). It does not include net
revenue sharing expense included in cost of rental on the statement of
operations. Net revenue sharing expense was $191.3 million, $221.8 million and
$165.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999,
respectively. New store and other investments in rental product includes all
fixed price rental inventories for new store openings, major catalog inventory
enhancement projects, such as an expansion of DVD catalog, and other long-term
investments not considered new release replenishment.

Capital expenditures other than for product include expenditures for equipment,
fixtures, and leasehold improvements for new and existing stores, remodeling
projects, and implementing and upgrading office and store technology.  We
anticipate that capital expenditures, other than purchases of rental inventory,
will be approximately $29.4 million in 2002, of which $21.8 million is
anticipated to relate to new, relocated or remodeled stores.  The remaining
balance relates to corporate capital expenditures. We presently intend to seek
to open approximately 50 new stores during the remainder of 2002 and to
increase our store base by approximately 10% per year thereafter.

Cash Flow from Financing Activities

In 2001 our cash flow from financing activities was a net use of $21 million
compared to $3 million of net cash provided by financing activities in 2000.
The slowing of store growth coupled with an increase in cash provided by
operations allowed us to operate with internally generated cash flow instead of
outside financing. Over the course of 2001, we repaid $17 million of principal
on capital leases and reduced amounts outstanding under our prior credit
facility by $5 million. At December 31, 2001 the balance outstanding under our
prior revolving credit facility was at $240 million, or $1.5 million under the
maximum availability of $241.5 million. As of March 31, 2002, we had $25.0
million available under our new senior secured revolving credit facility.

Other Financial Measurements: Working Capital

At December 31, 2001, we had cash and cash equivalents of $39 million and a
working capital deficit of $271 million. The working capital deficit is
primarily the result of the accounting treatment of rental inventory as
discussed below. Other factors contributing to the deficit were the current
amounts due under our prior revolving credit facility and significant accrued
expenditures (see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Rental
inventories are accounted for as non-current assets under GAAP because they are
not assets which are reasonably expected to be completely realized in cash or
sold in the normal business cycle.  Although the rental of this inventory
generates a substantial portion of our revenue, the classification of these
assets as non-current excludes them from the computation of working capital.
The acquisition cost of rental inventories, however, is reported as a current
liability until paid and, accordingly, included in the computation of working
capital.  Consequently, we believe working capital is not as significant a
measure of financial condition for companies in the video retail industry as it
is for companies in other industries.  Because of the accounting treatment of
rental inventory as a non-current asset, we will, more likely than not, operate
with a working capital deficit.  We believe the current existence of a working
capital deficit does not affect our ability to operate our business and meet
obligations as they come due.

Other Financial Measurements: Adjusted EBITDA and Free Cash Flow

We believe other financial measurements, such as Adjusted EBITDA and Free Cash
Flow, as defined below, are additional measurements that are useful in
understanding our operating results, including our ability to meet our growth
plans and debt service requirements. These measurements should not be viewed as
a measure of financial performance under GAAP or as substitute for GAAP
measurements such as net income or cash flow from operations. Our calculation
of these measurements is not necessarily comparable to those reported by other
companies due to the lack of uniform definitions.

Adjusted EBTIDA represents income (loss) from operations, before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), plus certain special charges, plus
non-cash expenses, minus the cost of replenishing new release rental inventory
for existing stores, which is capitalized (see Item 6, Selected Financial Data,
for a reconciliation of EBITDA to Adjusted EBITDA). Following is a table
calculating Adjusted EBITDA for 2001 (in millions):

   Income from operations                    $119.3
   Depreciation and amortization              247.1
   Special charges (accrual reversals)         (7.0)
   Non-cash expenses                           88.0
   New release replenishment                 (252.7)
                                             ------
   Adjusted EBITDA                            194.7

Free Cash Flow represents Adjusted EBITDA, less cash paid for interest, taxes,
investment capital expenditures (new store investments including construction
and product and new product platform rollouts) and maintenance capital
expenditures, other than the cost of replenishing new release rental inventory
for existing stores, which is included in the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA.
Following is a table calculating Free Cash Flow for 2001 (in millions):

   Adjusted EBITDA                           $194.7
   Less: cash interest                        (54.7)
   Less: cash taxes paid                       (0.8)
   Less: maintenance capital expenditures      (6.4)
                                              -----
   Free Cash Flow before investment
     capital expenditures                     132.8

   Less: investment capital expenditures      (26.8)
                                             ------
   Free Cash Flow                            $106.0


RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of
recently issued accounting standards and the impact they may have on the
financial condition or results of operations.


GENERAL ECONOMIC TRENDS, QUARTERLY RESULTS AND SEASONALITY

We anticipate that our business will be affected by general economic and other
consumer trends. Future operating results may be affected by various factors,
including (i) variations in the number and timing of new store openings, (ii)
the performance of new or acquired stores, (iii) the quality and number of new
release titles available for rental and sale, (iv) additional and existing
competition, (v) marketing programs, (vi) the level of demand for movie and
video game rentals and purchases, (vii) the effects of changing and/or new
technology and intense competition, (viii) the prices for which we are able to
rent or sell our products, (ix) the costs and availability to us of newly-
released movies and video games, (x) changes in other significant operating
costs and expenses, (xi) the effects of our substantial indebtedness and the
limitations imposed by restrictive covenants contained in our debt instruments,
(xii) our ability to manage store expansions and growth, (xiii) acts of God or
public authorities, war, civil unrest, fire, floods, earthquakes, acts of
terrorism, the weather and other matters beyond our control.

The video retail industry generally experiences relative revenue declines in
April and May, due in part to the change in Daylight Savings Time and due to
improved weather, and in September and October, due in part to the start of
school and the introduction of new television programs. We believe these
seasonality trends will continue.


FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section
21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve
substantial risks and uncertainties and which are intended to be covered by the
safe harbors created thereby. These statements can be identified by the fact
that they do not relate strictly to historical information and include the
words "expects", "believes", "anticipates", "plans", "may", "will", "intend",
"estimate", "continue" or other similar expressions. These forward-looking
statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated. These
risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, items discussed below
under the heading "Cautionary Statements" and above under the heading "General
Economic Trends, Quarterly Results and Seasonality".  Forward-looking
statements speak only as of the date made.  We undertake no obligation to
publicly release or update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of
new information, future events or otherwise.  You are, however, advised to
consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q and any reports made on Form 8-K to the Securities and
Exchange Commission.


CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS

We are subject to a number of risks that are particular to our business and
that may or may not affect our competitors.  We describe some of these risks
below.  If any of these risks materializes, our business, financial condition,
liquidity and results of operations could be harmed, and the value of our
securities could fall.

We face intense competition and risks associated with technological
obsolescence, and we may be unable to compete effectively.

The home video and home video game industries are highly competitive.  We
compete with local, regional and national video retail stores, including those
operated by Blockbuster, Inc., the largest video retailer in the United States,
and with mass merchants, specialty retailers, supermarkets, pharmacies,
convenience stores, bookstores, mail order operations, online stores and other
retailers, as well as with noncommercial sources, such as libraries.
Substantially all of our stores compete with stores operated by Blockbuster,
most in very close proximity.  Some of our competitors have significantly
greater financial and marketing resources, market share and name recognition
than Hollywood.  As a result of direct competition with Blockbuster and others,
pricing strategies for videos and video games is a significant competitive
factor in our business.  Our home video and home video game businesses also
compete with other forms of entertainment, including cinema, television,
sporting events and family entertainment centers.  If we do not compete
effectively with competitors in the home video industry or the home video game
industry or with providers of other forms of entertainment, our revenues and/or
our profit margin could decline and our business, financial condition,
liquidity and results of operations could be harmed.

We also compete with cable and direct broadcast satellite television systems.
These systems offer both movie channels, for which subscribers pay a
subscription fee for access to movies selected by the provider at times
selected by the provider, and pay-per-view services, for which subscribers pay
a discrete fee to view a particular movie selected by the subscriber.
Historically pay-per-view services have offered a limited number of channels
and movies, and have offered movies only at scheduled intervals.  Today,
however, advances in digital compression and other developing technologies are
enabling cable and satellite companies, and may enable internet service
providers and others, to transmit a significantly greater number of movies to
homes at more frequently scheduled intervals throughout the day.  In addition,
certain cable companies, internet service providers and others have tested and
are continuing to test video-on-demand services in some markets.  As a concept,
video on demand would provide a subscriber with the ability to view any movie
included in a catalog of titles maintained by the provider at any time of the
day.  If video on demand or other alternative movie delivery systems, whether
alone or in conjunction with sophisticated digital recording systems (which
allow viewers to record, pause, rewind and fast forward live broadcasts),
achieve the ability to enable consumers to conveniently view and control the
movies they want to see when they want to see them, such alternative movie
delivery systems could achieve a competitive advantage over the traditional
video rental industry.  While we believe that there presently exist substantial
technological, economic and other impediments to alternative movie delivery
systems achieving such a competitive advantage, technological advances and
other developments could enable them to do so, which in turn could harm our
profitability and otherwise harm our business, financial condition, liquidity
and results of operations.

Changes in the way that movie studios price videocassettes and/or DVDs could
adversely affect our revenues and profit margins.

Movie studios use various pricing models to maximize the revenues they receive
for movies released to the home video industry.  Historically, these pricing
models have enabled a profitable video rental market to exist and compete
effectively with mass retailers and other sellers of home videos.  Initially,
the movie studios adopted a "rental pricing" model under which high initial
wholesale prices are established in order for the studios to maximize revenues
from rental retailers prior to setting prices at levels to create demand from
mass merchants.  More recently, movie studios have entered into revenue sharing
arrangements (usually on a title-by-title basis) under which studios provide
movies to video rental retailers at reduced prices in exchange for a share of
rental revenues.  Movie studios have also utilized "sell-through" pricing under
which lower wholesale prices generate more consumer demand for home video
purchases, but also result in an increase in profit margins on video rentals.
We can neither control nor predict with certainty whether the studios' pricing
policies will continue to enable us to operate our business as profitably as we
can under current pricing arrangements.  If the studios were to significantly
change their pricing policies in a manner that increases our cost of obtaining
movies under revenue sharing arrangements or other arrangements, our revenues
and/or profit margin could decrease, and our business, financial condition,
liquidity and results of operations would be harmed.

We could lose a significant competitive advantage if the movie studios were to
adversely change their current distribution practices.

Currently, video stores receive movie titles approximately 30 to 90 days
earlier than pay-per-view, cable and satellite distribution companies.  If
movie studios were to change the current distribution schedule for movie titles
such that video stores were no longer the first major distribution channel to
receive a movie title after its theatrical or direct-to-video release or to
provide for the earlier release of movie titles to competing distribution
channels, we could be deprived of a significant competitive advantage, which
could negatively impact the demand for our products and reduce our revenues and
could harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of
operations.

The video store industry could be adversely impacted by conditions affecting
the motion picture industry.

The video store industry is dependent on the continued production and
availability of motion pictures produced by movie studios.  Any conditions that
adversely affect the motion picture industry, including constraints on capital,
financial difficulties, regulatory requirements and strikes, work stoppages or
other disruptions involving writers, actors or other essential personnel, could
reduce the number and quality of the new release titles in our stores.  This in
turn could reduce consumer demand and negatively impact our revenues, which
would harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of
operations.

The failure of video game software and hardware manufacturers to timely
introduce new products could hurt our ability to attract and retain video game
rental customers.

We are dependent on the introduction of new and enhanced video games and game
systems to attract and retain video game rental customers.  If manufacturers
fail to introduce or delay the introduction of new games and systems, the
demand for games available to us could decline, negatively impacting our
revenues, and our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of
operations could be harmed.

Expansion of our store base has placed and may place pressure on our operations
and management controls.

We have expanded the size of our store base and the geographic scope of
operations significantly since our inception.  Between 1996 and 2000 we opened
an average of 306 stores per year.  Although we have currently curtailed new
store openings, we intend to open new stores in the future.  This expansion has
placed, and may continue to place, increased pressure on our operating and
management controls.  To manage a larger store base, we will need to continue
to evaluate and improve our financial controls, management information systems
and distribution facilities.  We may not adequately anticipate or respond to
all of the changing demands of expansion on our infrastructure.  In addition,
our ability to open and operate new stores in a profitable manner depends upon
numerous contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. These
contingencies include:

- -  our ability under the terms of the instruments governing our existing and
   future indebtedness to make capital expenditures associated with new store
   openings;

- -  our ability to locate suitable store sites, negotiate acceptable lease
   terms, and build out or refurbish sites on a timely and cost-effective
   basis;

- -  our ability to hire, train and retain skilled associates; and

- -  our ability to integrate new stores into our existing operations.

We may also open stores in markets where we already have significant operations
in order to maximize our market share within these markets.  If we do so, we
cannot assure you that these newly opened stores will not adversely affect the
revenues and profitability of those pre-existing stores in any given market.

We depend on key personnel whom we may not be able to retain; recent management
changes are unproven.

Our future performance depends on the continued contributions of certain key
management personnel. From late 2000 through mid-2001, we made significant
changes to our management personnel, including adding two new outside directors
to the board of directors, reinstating Mark J. Wattles, Hollywood's founder and
Chief Executive Officer, full-time as President, hiring Scott R. Schultze, who
subsequently became Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer,
hiring James A. Marcum as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
and restructuring other executive and senior management positions.  These new
members of management may not be able to successfully manage our existing
operations and they may not remain with us. A loss of one or more of these key
management personnel, our inability to attract and retain additional key
management personnel, including qualified store managers, or the inability of
management to successfully manage our operations could prevent us from
implementing our business strategy and harm our business, financial condition,
liquidity or results of operations.

The failure of our management information systems to perform as we anticipate
could harm our business.

The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management
information systems.  In particular, we rely on an inventory utilization system
used by our merchandise organization and in our distribution centers to track
rental activity by individual videocassette, DVD and video game to determine
appropriate buying, distribution and disposition of videocassettes, DVDs and
video games.  We use a scalable client-server system to maintain information,
updated daily, regarding revenue, current and historical rental and sales
activity, demographics of store membership, individual customer history, and
videocassette, DVD and video game rental patterns.  We rely on these systems as
well as our proprietary point-of-sale and in-store systems to keep our in-store
inventories at optimum levels, to move inventory efficiently and to track and
record our performance.  The failure of our management information systems to
perform as we anticipate could impair our ability to manage our inventory and
monitor our performance and harm our business, financial condition, liquidity
and results of operations.

Instruments governing our existing and future indebtedness contain or may
contain covenants that restrict our business.

Instruments governing our new bank credit facility (in which UBS Warburg is
acting as agent for the lenders thereunder, as well as a lender) and our
existing senior subordinated notes due 2004 contain, and our future
indebtedness may contain a number of significant covenants that, among other
things, significantly restrict our ability to:

- -  open new stores;
- -  incur additional indebtedness;
- -  guarantee third-party obligations;
- -  enter into capital leases;
- -  create liens on assets;
- -  dispose of assets;
- -  repay indebtedness or amend indebtedness instruments;
- -  make capital expenditures;
- -  make investments, loans or advances;
- -  make acquisitions or engage in mergers or consolidations; and
- -  engage in certain transactions with our subsidiaries and affiliates.

We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and debt service obligations,
which could adversely affect our financial and operational flexibility and
increase our vulnerability to adverse conditions.

As of December 31, 2001 we had total consolidated long-term debt, including
capital leases, of approximately $514 million.  This level of indebtedness
could increase in the future.  Our substantial amount of indebtedness could
have important consequences to you.  For example, it could:

- -  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments
   on our indebtedness;

- -  limit our ability to borrow additional funds;

- -  increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry
   conditions;

- -  limit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and
   other general corporate requirements;

- -  limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our
   business and the industry in which we operate or taking advantage of
   potential business opportunities;

- -  limit our ability to execute our business strategy successfully; and

- -  place us at a competitive disadvantage in our industry.

We and our subsidiaries may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the
future, including indebtedness that would be secured by our assets or those of
our subsidiaries.  If new indebtedness is added to our and our subsidiaries'
current indebtedness levels, the related risks that we and they now face could
intensify.

Our ability to satisfy our indebtedness obligations will depend on our
financial and operating performance, which may fluctuate significantly from
quarter to quarter and is subject to economic, industry and market conditions
and to risks related to our business and other factors beyond our control.

We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from
operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts
sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity
needs.  We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or
before maturity.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of
our indebtedness, including the debt securities, on commercially reasonable
terms or at all.

Instruments governing our existing and future indebtedness contain or may
contain various covenants, including covenants requiring us to meet specified
financial ratios and tests.  Our failure to comply with all applicable
covenants could result in our indebtedness being immediately due and payable.

The instruments governing our existing indebtedness contain various covenants
which, among other things, limit our ability to make capital expenditures and
require us to meet specified financial ratios, which generally become more
stringent over time, including a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest
and rent coverage ratio.  The instruments governing our future indebtedness may
impose similar or other restrictions and may require us to meet similar or
other financial ratios and tests.  Our ability to comply with covenants
contained in the instruments governing our existing and future indebtedness may
be affected by events and circumstances beyond our control.  If we breach any
of these covenants, one or more events of default, including cross-defaults
between multiple components of our indebtedness, could result.  These events of
default could permit our creditors to declare all amounts owing to be
immediately due and payable, and terminate any commitments to make further
extensions of credit.  If we were unable to repay indebtedness owed to our
secured creditors, they could proceed against the collateral securing the
indebtedness owed to them.

We are subject to governmental regulations that impose obligations and
restrictions and may increase our costs.

We are subject to various U.S. federal and state laws that govern, among other
things, the disclosure and retention of our video rental records and access and
use of our video stores by disabled persons, and are subject to various state
and local licensing, zoning, land use, construction and environment
regulations.  Furthermore, changes in existing laws, including environmental
and employment laws, new laws or increases in the minimum wage may increase our
costs.

Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and
Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other acts of violence or war may
affect the markets on which our common stock trades, the markets in which we
operate, our operations and our profitability.

Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may negatively affect our
operations and your investment.  There can be no assurance that there will not
be further terrorist attacks or other acts of violence or war against the
United States or United States businesses.  Also, as a result of terrorism, the
United States has entered into armed conflict.  These attacks or armed
conflicts may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our
suppliers.  Furthermore, these attacks or armed conflicts may make travel and
the transportation of our supplies and products more difficult and more
expensive and ultimately affect our revenues.

More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and
spending to decrease further or result in increased volatility in the United
States and worldwide financial markets and economy.  They also could result in
economic recession in the United States or abroad.  Any of these occurrences
could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations, and may
result in the volatility of the market price for our securities and on the
future price of our securities.

Our quarterly operating results will vary, which may affect the value of our
securities in a manner unrelated to our long-term performance.

Our quarterly operating results have varied in the past and we expect that they
will continue to vary in the future depending on a number of factors, many of
which are outside of our control.  Factors that may cause our quarterly
operating results to vary include:

- -  the level of demand for movie rentals and purchases;

- -  existing and future competition from providers of similar products and
   alternative forms of entertainment;

- -  the prices for which we are able to rent or sell our products;

- -  the availability and cost to us of newly-released movies;

- -  changes in other significant operating costs and expenses;

- -  weather;

- -  seasonality;

- -  variations in the number and timing of store openings;

- -  the performance of newer stores;

- -  acquisitions by us of existing video stores;

- -  the success of new business initiatives;

- -  other factors that may affect retailers in general;

- -  changes in movie rental habits resulting from domestic and world events;

- -  actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differing from judgments,
   assumptions and estimates used in determining the amount of certain assets
   (including the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities and
   other items reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements; and

- -  acts of God or public authorities, war, civil unrest, fire, floods,
   earthquakes, acts of terrorism and other matters beyond our control.

Our securities may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations.

The market price of our securities has been and can be expected to be
significantly affected by a variety of factors, including:

- -  public announcements concerning us, our competitors or the home video rental
   industry;

- -  fluctuations in our operating results;

- -  introductions of new products or services by us or our competitors;

- -  the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; and

- -  changes in analysts' revenue or earnings estimates.

In addition to the foregoing, the market price of our debt securities may be
significantly affected by change in market rates of interest, yields obtainable
from investments in comparable securities, credit ratings assigned to our debt
securities by third parties and perceptions regarding our ability to pay our
obligations on our debt securities.

In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of
their securities have been the target of securities class action litigation.
If we were sued in a securities class action, we could incur substantial costs
and suffer from a diversion of our management's attention and resources.

Future sales of shares of our common stock may negatively affect our stock
price.

If we or our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the
public market following this offering, the market price of our common stock
could fall.  In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock
might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities
in the future.

We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future.

We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and we do
not expect to declare dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.
The instruments governing our existing and future indebtedness contain or may
contain provisions prohibiting or limiting the payment of dividends on our
common stock.

Provisions of Oregon law and our articles of incorporation may make it more
difficult to acquire us, even though an acquisition may be beneficial to our
shareholders.

Provisions of Oregon law condition the voting rights that would otherwise be
associated with any shares of our common stock that may be acquired in
specified transactions deemed to constitute a "control share acquisitions" upon
approval by our shareholders (excluding, among other things, the acquiror in
any such transaction).  Provisions or Oregon law also restrict, subject to
specified exceptions, the ability of a person owning 15% or more of our common
stock to enter into any "business combination transaction" with us.  In
addition, under our articles of incorporation, our Board of Directors has the
authority to issue up to 25.0 million shares of preferred stock and to fix the
rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of those shares without any
further vote or action by the shareholders.  The foregoing provisions of Oregon
law and our articles of incorporation have the effect of delaying, deferring or
preventing a change in control of Hollywood, may discourage bids for our common
stock at a premium over the market price of our common stock and may adversely
affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of,
our common stock and the occurrence of a control share acquisition may
constitute an event of default under, or otherwise require us to repurchase or
repay, our indebtedness.


ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our financial position,
operating results, or cash flows due to adverse changes in financial and
commodity market prices and rates. We have entered into certain market-risk-
sensitive financial instruments for other than trading purposes, principally
short-term and long-term debt. Historically, and as of December 31, 2001, we
have not held derivative instruments or engaged in hedging activities. However,
we may in the future enter into such instruments for the purpose of addressing
market risks, including market risks associated with variable-rate
indebtedness.

The interest payable on our bank credit facility is based on variable interest
rates (IBOR or the prime bank rate at our option), and therefore, affected by
changes in market interest rates. Hypothetically, if variable base rates were
to increase 1% in 2001 as compared to the end of 2000, our interest rate
expense would increase by approximately $2.4 million based on our outstanding
balance on the facility as of December 31, 2001.


ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Incorporated by reference to Item 14 of this report on Form 10-K.


ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.



                                   PART III


ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information about our directors is incorporated by reference from our
definitive proxy statement, under the caption "Nomination and Election of Board
of Directors," for our 2002 annual meeting of shareholders (the "2002 Proxy
Statement") to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A promulgated by the
Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
which proxy statement is anticipated to be filed no later than 120 days after
the end of the Company's fiscal year ended December 31, 2001.  Information with
respect to our executive officers is included under Item 4A of Part I of this
report.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information required by this Item 11 is incorporated by reference from the 2002
Proxy Statement.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Information required by this Item 12 is incorporated by reference from the 2002
Proxy Statement.


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information required by this Item 13 is incorporated by reference from the 2002
Proxy Statement.



                                    PART IV


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

Listed below are all financial statements, notes, schedules and exhibits filed
as part of the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2001:

     (a)(i), (ii) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following financial statements of the Registrant, together with the Report
of Independent Accountants dated February 19, 2002, except as to Note 25, which
is as of March 18, 2002, are filed herewith:

(i)  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Report of Independent Accountants

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2001 and 2000

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2001,
2000 and 1999

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2001,
2000 and 1999

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(ii)  FINANCIAL SCHEDULES

All financial schedules are omitted as the required information is inapplicable
or the information is presented in the respective Consolidated Financial
Statements or related notes.

(a) (iii)  Exhibits

The following exhibits are filed with or incorporated by reference into this
Annual Report:

EXHIBIT
NUMBER         DESCRIPTION

Items identified with an asterisk (*) are management contracts or
compensatory plans or arrangements.

3.1      1993B Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended  (incorporated
         by reference to our Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 33-
         63042)(the "Form S-1"), by reference to Exhibit 4 to our Registration
         Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 33-96140), and by reference to Exhibit
         3.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
         September 30, 1998.

3.2      1999 Restated Bylaws (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to our
         Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-82937)(the "1999
         S-4")).

4.1      Specimen Common Stock certificate (incorporated by reference to
         Exhibit 4.1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended
         December 31, 2000, filed on January 29, 2002).

4.2      Indenture, dated August 13, 1997, between the Registrant and  BNY
         Western Trust Company, as successor in interest to U.S. Trust Company
         of California, N.A., as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
         4.1 to our Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No.333-35351) (the
         "1997 S-4")), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture,
         dated as of June 24, 1999, between the Registrant and the Trustee
         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the 1999 S-4), the Second
         Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 20, 2000, between the
         Registrant and the Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
         to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
         1999) and the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 12,
         2002, between the Registrant, as Issuer, Hollywood Management Company,
         as Subsidiary Guarantor, and the Trustee (incorporated by reference to
         Exhibit 4.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A for the quarter
         ended September 30, 2001).

4.3      Indenture dated January 25, 2002 among the Registrant, Hollywood
         Management Company, as potential guarantor, and BNY Western Trust
         Company as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to our
         Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-14802)).

10.1     1993 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference
         to Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
         ended June 30, 1997). *

10.2     Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form S-1). *

10.3     Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Form S-1). *

10.4     2001 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
         to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
         2001). *

10.5     Revolving Credit Agreement, as amended as of August 4, 2000, among the
         Registrant, as Borrower, and Societe Generale, Goldman Sachs Credit
         Partners L.P. and certain other financial institutions, as Lenders,
         and Societe Generale, as Agent for the Lenders, Goldman Sachs Credit
         Partners, L.P., as Documentation Agent, and Credit Lyonnais Los
         Angeles Branch,Deutsche Bank AG, New York Branch, U.S. Bank National
         Association and KeyBank National Association, as Co-Agents
         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of our Quarterly Report on
         Form 10-Q/A for the quarter ended September 30, 2000), as amended by
         the Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of June 5, 2001
         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of our Current Report on
         Form 8-K filed on June 5, 2001), as amended by the Amendment to Credit
         Agreement dated as of November 28, 2001 (incorporated by reference to
         Exhibit 10.8 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended
         December 31, 2000, filed on January 29, 2002).

10.6    Credit Agreement dated as of March 18, 2002 among the Registrant, as
         Borrower, the several lenders from time to time party thereto, as
         Lenders, and UBS AG, Stamford Branch, as administrative agent for the
         Lenders.

10.7     Separation and Severance Agreement effective as of October 24, 2000
         between the Registrant and Jeffrey B. Yapp (incorporated by reference
         to Exhibit 10.6 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
         the year ended December 31, 2000, filed on April 2, 2001). *

10.8     Offer of Employment Term Sheet effective as of January 25, 2001 from
         the Registrant to Mark J. Wattles (incorporated by reference
         to Exhibit 10.7 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
         the year ended December 31, 2000, filed on April 2, 2001). *

10.9     Change of Control Plan for Senior Management dated as of February 3,
         2001 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Registrant's
         Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000, filed
         on April 2, 2001). *

10.10    Revenue Sharing Agreement dated March 2, 1998 between the Registrant
         and Buena Vista Home Entertainment, Inc (incorporated by reference to
         Exhibit 10.13 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended
         December 31, 2000, filed on January 29, 2002). +

10.11    Revenue Sharing Agreement dated July 31, 2001 between the Registrant
         and MGM Home Entertainment (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14
         to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31,
         2000, filed on January 29, 2002). +

10.12    Administrative Services Agreement dated as of January 1, 1998
         between Hollywood Management Corporation and Hollywood Entertainment
         Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to our Annual
         Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2000, filed on
         January 29, 2002).

10.13    Income Tax Allocation Agreement dated as of January 1, 1998 between
         Hollywood Management Corporation and Hollywood Entertainment
         Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to our Annual
         Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2000, filed on
         January 29, 2002).

10.14    Intellectual Property License Agreement between Hollywood
         Management Corporation and Hollywood Entertainment Corporation
         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to our Annual Report on
         Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2000, filed on January 29,
         2002).

21.1     List of Subsidiaries (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 21.1 to
         our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2000,
         filed on January 29, 2002).

23.1     Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.


+ Confidential treatment has been requested as to certain portions of these
agreements. Such omitted confidential information has been designated by an
asterisk and has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange
Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, pursuant to an application for confidential treatment.


(b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K:



Report of Independent Accountants

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Hollywood Entertainment
Corporation

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of operations, of changes in shareholders' equity and
of cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position
of Hollywood Entertainment Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31,
2001 and 2000, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2001 in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management;
our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
on our audits.  We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.


PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP


PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Portland, Oregon
February 19, 2002, except as to Note 25, which is as of March 18, 2002



                      HOLLYWOOD ENTERTAINMENT CORPORATION
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                     (In thousands, except share amounts)

                                       -------------------------
                                        December 31,  December 31,
                                            2001          2000
                                        -----------   -----------
ASSETS
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents               $    38,810   $     3,268
Accounts receivable                          29,056        23,830
Merchandise inventories                      61,585        54,201
Prepaid expenses and other current
 assets                                      10,863        10,099
                                        -----------   -----------
Total current assets                        140,314        91,398

Rental inventory, net                       191,016       168,462
Property and equipment, net                 270,586       323,666
Goodwill, net                                64,934        69,616
Deferred income tax asset                    38,396             -
Other assets, net                            13,298        11,972
                                        -----------   -----------
                                        $   718,544   $   665,114
                                        ===========   ===========
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS'
EQUITY (DEFICIT)
Current liabilities:
Current maturities of long-term
 obligations                            $   111,914   $   261,164
Accounts payable                            167,479       200,358
Accrued expenses                            112,799       114,633
Accrued interest                             13,712        11,817
Income taxes payable                          5,266         4,844
                                        -----------    ----------
Total current liabilities                   411,170       592,816
Long-term obligations, less current
 portion                                    402,088       275,237
Other liabilities                            18,840        19,438
                                        -----------    ----------
                                            832,098       887,491
Commitments and contingencies (Note 22)           -             -
Shareholders' equity (deficit):
Preferred stock, no par value,
 25,000,000 shares authorized;
 no shares issued and outstanding                 -             -
Common stock, no par value, 100,000,000
 shares authorized; and 49,428,763
 and 46,247,599 shares issued and
 outstanding, respectively                  375,503       365,441
Unearned compensation                        (1,655)            -
Accumulated deficit                        (487,402)     (587,818)
                                        -----------    ----------
Total shareholders' (deficit)              (113,554)     (222,377)
                                        -----------    ----------
                                        $   718,544   $   665,114
                                        ===========   ===========

                See notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                      HOLLYWOOD ENTERTAINMENT CORPORATION
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                   (In thousands, except per share amounts)

                                          Twelve Months Ended
                                               December 31,
                                  ------------------------------------
                                      2001        2000         1999
                                  -----------  -----------  -----------
Rental revenue                    $1,140,730   $1,071,024   $  893,491
Product sales                        238,773      225,213      203,350
                                  -----------  -----------  -----------
                                   1,379,503    1,296,237    1,096,841
                                  -----------  -----------  -----------
Cost of Revenue:
 Cost of rental                      375,014      580,849      278,890
 Cost of product                     169,463      204,401      154,990
                                  -----------  -----------  -----------
                                     544,477      785,250      433,880
                                  -----------  -----------  -----------
Gross Profit                         835,026      510,987      662,961

Operating costs and expenses:
 Operating and selling               621,343      713,431      522,682
 General and administrative           96,382      110,242       85,873
 Restructuring charge for closure
  of Internet business                (3,256)      46,862            -
 Restructuring charge for store
  closures                            (3,778)      16,859            -
 Amortization of intangibles           5,058       59,914       56,919
                                   ----------   ----------   ----------
                                     715,749      947,308      665,474
                                   ----------   ----------   ----------
Income (loss) from operations        119,277     (436,321)      (2,513)

Non-operating income (expense):
 Interest income                         417          175          214
 Interest expense                    (56,546)     (62,302)     (45,691)
                                  ----------   ----------   ----------
Income (loss) before income taxes
 and cumulative effect adjustment     63,148     (498,448)     (47,990)
(Provision for) benefit from
 income taxes                         37,268      (31,592)      (1,868)
                                   ----------   ----------   ----------
Income (loss) before cumulative
 effect of a change in accounting
 principle                           100,416     (530,040)     (49,858)
Cumulative effect of a change in
 accounting principle (net of
 income tax benefit of $983)               -            -       (1,444)
                                   ----------   ----------   ----------
Net income (loss)                  $ 100,416    $(530,040)   $ (51,302)
                                   ==========   ==========   ==========
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income (loss) per share before
 cumulative effect of a change
 in accounting principle:
   Basic                          $     2.05    $  (11.48)  $    (1.09)
   Diluted                              1.90       (11.48)       (1.09)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income (loss) per share:
   Basic                          $     2.05    $  (11.48)  $    (1.13)
   Diluted                              1.90       (11.48)       (1.13)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted average shares outstanding:
   Basic                              49,101       46,151       45,592
   Diluted                            52,880       46,151       45,592
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
                See notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                     HOLLYWOOD ENTERTAINMENT CORPORATION
      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (DEFICIT)
                     (In thousands, except share amounts)


                                 Common Stock    Unearned  Accumu-
                             ------------------- Compen-   lated
                               Shares    Amount  sation    Deficit    Total
                             ---------- -------- -------- --------- ---------
Balance at
 December 31, 1998           44,933,055 $354,067        - $  (6,476)$ 347,591
                             ---------- -------- -------- --------- ---------
Issuance of common stock:
 Stock options exercised        888,482    4,392        -         -     4,392
 Tax benefit from
   stock options                      -    3,848        -         -     3,848
Net loss                              -        -        -   (51,302)  (51,302)
                             ---------- -------- -------- --------- ---------
Balance at
 December 31, 1999           45,821,537  362,307        -   (57,778)  304,529
                             ---------- -------- -------- --------- ---------
Issuance of common stock:
 Legal settlement               200,000    2,288        -         -     2,288
 Stock options exercised        226,062      783        -         -       783
 Tax benefit
  from stock options                  -       63        -         -        63
Net loss                              -        -        -  (530,040) (530,040)
                             ---------- -------- -------- --------- ---------
Balance at
  December 31, 2000          46,247,599  365,441        -  (587,818) (222,377)
                             ---------- -------- -------- --------- ---------
Issuance of common stock:
 Compensation grant
  (See Note 15)               3,000,000    3,281        -         -     3,281
 Stock options exercised        181,164    1,097        -         -     1,097
 Tax impact from
   stock options                      -      (61)       -         -       (61)
 Stock compensation                   -    5,745   (1,655)        -     4,090
Net income                            -        -        -   100,416   100,416
                             ---------- -------- -------- --------- ---------
Balance at
  December 31, 2001          49,428,763 $375,503 $ (1,655)$(487,402)$(113,554)
                             ========== ======== ======== ========= =========

                See notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                      HOLLYWOOD ENTERTAINMENT CORPORATION
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                (In thousands)

                                                 Year Ended December 31,
                                            -------------------------------
                                               2001       2000       1999
                                            ---------  ---------   --------
Operating activities:
 Net income (loss)                          $ 100,416  $(530,040)  $(51,302)
 Adjustments to reconcile net
  income (loss) to cash provided by
  operating activities:
 Cumulative effect of a change
  in accounting principle                           -          -      1,444
 Depreciation and amortization                247,176    277,163    222,842
 Amortization charge for change in
  estimate on rental inventory                      -    164,306          -
 Impairment of long-lived assets                    -     74,305          -
 Amortization of deferred financing costs       3,715      2,665      1,936
Net asset write down for closure of
  Internet business                                 -     40,087          -
 Net asset write down for store closures            -      9,516          -
 Loss on other asset dispositions                   -     10,292          -
 Tax impact from exercise of
  stock options                                   (61)        63      3,848
 Change in deferred rent                         (598)     1,993      3,565
 Change in deferred income taxes              (38,396)    25,805     (1,545)
 Non-cash stock compensation                    7,371          -          -
Net change in operating assets
  and liabilities:
   Accounts receivable                         (5,226)    18,680     (1,817)
   Merchandise inventories                     (7,384)    16,718    (26,290)
   Accounts payable                           (32,879)    79,378       (385)
   Accrued interest                             1,895        (48)     2,172
   Other current assets
    and liabilities                            (2,236)    57,988     22,683
                                            ---------   --------   --------
     Cash provided by operating
       activities                             273,793    248,871    177,151
                                            ---------   --------   --------
Investing activities:
 Purchases of rental inventory, net          (202,790)  (176,753)  (185,877)
 Purchase of property and
   equipment, net                              (8,802)   (77,639)  (112,258)
 Investment in businesses acquired                  -          -    (17,434)
 Increase in intangibles and other
  assets                                       (5,357)    (1,430)    (4,769)
                                            ---------   --------   --------
     Cash used in investing
      activities                             (216,949)  (255,822)  (320,338)
                                            ---------   --------   --------
Financing activities:
 Issuance of long-term obligations                  -     12,511     90,162
 Repayments of long-term obligations          (17,399)   (15,016)    (8,401)
 Proceeds from exercise of stock options        1,097        783      4,392
 Increase (decrease) in revolving
  loan, net                                    (5,000)     5,000     60,000
                                            ---------  ---------   --------
     Cash (used in) provided by
      financing activities                    (21,302)     3,278    146,153
                                            ---------  ---------   --------
Increase (decrease) in cash and
 cash equivalents                              35,542     (3,673)     2,966
Cash and cash equivalents at
 beginning of year                              3,268      6,941      3,975
                                            ---------  ---------   --------
Cash and cash equivalents at end
  of year                                   $  38,810  $   3,268   $  6,941
                                            =========  =========   ========

Other Cash Flow Information:
 Interest expense paid                      $  54,651   $ 60,702   $ 42,896
 Income taxes paid (refunded), net                768       (915)     5,741
Non-cash financing activities
 Issuance of common stock as part of
  a legal settlement agreement                      -      2,288          -

                See notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



                      HOLLYWOOD ENTERTAINMENT CORPORATION
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                         DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000, 1999


1.   SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Corporate Organization and Consolidation

The accompanying financial statements include the accounts of Hollywood
Entertainment Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the "Company").
The Company's only subsidiary during 2001 was Hollywood Management Company.
During 2000 and 1999, the Company's subsidiaries consisted of Hollywood
Management Company and Reel.com, Inc. All significant inter-company
transactions and accounts have been eliminated.

Nature of the Business

The Company operates a chain of video superstores ("Hollywood Video")
throughout the United States. From October 1998 to June 2000, the Company also
operated an Internet retailer of video only products ("Reel.com")(see Note 11
for a discussion of the discontinuation of Reel.com's e-commerce operations).
The Company was incorporated in Oregon on June 2, 1988 and opened its first
store in October 1988. As of December 31, 2001 and 2000, the Company operated
1,801 stores in 47 states and 1,818 stores in 47 states, respectively.

Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Financial Statements

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Significant
estimates relative to the Company include revenue recognition, depreciation and
amortization policies, impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill, income
taxes and legal contingencies.

Reclassification of Prior Year Amounts

Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the
presentation used for the current year.  These reclassifications had no impact
on previously reported net loss or shareholders' equity.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

In the first quarter of 2001 the Company adopted SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" issued by the Financial
Accounting Standards Board(FASB) on June 15, 1998. The adoption of SFAS No. 133
did not have an effect on the Company's results of operations or its financial
position.

The Company adopted the provisions of SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101,
"Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements" in the fourth quarter of 2000.
The Company also adopted Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 99-19, "Reporting
Revenues Gross as a Principal versus Net as an agent," in the fourth quarter of
2000.  The effect of the adoption of these standards was not material.

In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB
Statements Nos. 141 and 142 (SFAS 141 and SFAS 142), "Business Combinations"
and "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets."  SFAS 141 replaces APB 16 and
eliminates pooling-of-interests accounting prospectively.  It also provides
guidance on purchase accounting related to the recognition of intangible assets
and accounting for negative goodwill.  SFAS 142 changes the accounting for
goodwill from an amortization method to an impairment only approach.  Under
SFAS 142, goodwill will be tested annually and whenever events or circumstances
occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired.  SFAS 141 and 142 are
effective for all business combinations completed after June 30, 2001. Upon
adoption of SFAS 142, amortization of goodwill recorded for business
combinations consummated prior to July 1, 2001 will cease, and intangible
assets acquired prior to July 1, 2001 that do not meet criteria for recognition
under SFAS 141 will be reclassified to goodwill.  Companies are required to
adopt SFAS 142 for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001.  The Company
will adopt SFAS 142 on January 1, 2002, the beginning of fiscal 2002.  In
connection with the adoption of SFAS 142, the Company will be required to
perform a transitional goodwill impairment assessment.  The Company has not yet
determined the impact these standards will have on its results of operations
and financial position.  As of December 31, 2001, the Company expects a
reduction in annual amortization expense of approximately $5.1 million in 2002
upon adoption of SFAS No. 142.

In July 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, "Accounting For Asset Retirement
Obligations". SFAS No. 143 requires entities to record the fair value of a
liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is
incurred. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity is required to
capitalize the cost by increasing the carrying amount of the related long-lived
asset. Over time, the liability is accreted to its present value each period,
and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related
asset. SFAS No. 143 is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002
and will be adopted by the Company effective January 1, 2003. The Company
believes adoption of this standard will not have a material effect on its
financial statements.

On October 3, 2001, the FASB issued Statement of Accounting Standards No.
144 "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" ("FAS
144").  FAS 144 supercedes FAS 121 "Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of."  FAS 144
applies to all long-lived assets (including discontinued operations) and
consequently amends Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 (APB 30),
Reporting Results of Operations--Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a
Segment of a Business.  In general, FAS 144 requires that long-lived assets
that will continue to be operated be measured at the lower of book value or the
undiscounted projected future operating cash flows directly associated with the
asset. FAS 144 requires that long-lived assets that are to be disposed of by
sale be measured at the lower of book value or estimated fair value less
estimated cost to sell.  Additionally, FAS 144 expands the scope of
discontinued operations to include all components of an entity with operations
that (1) can be distinguished from the rest of the entity and (2) will be
eliminated from the ongoing operations of the entity in a disposal transaction.
FAS 144 is effective for the Company for all financial statements issued
beginning January 1, 2002.  Currently, the management of the Company does not
anticipate disposing of any long-lived assets in 2002, other than the assets
intended to be disposed of pursuant to the store closure plan (see Note 7),
therefore, there should be no affect from the adoption of FAS 144.

Rental Revenue and Merchandise

The Company recognizes revenue upon the rental and sale of its products.
Revenue for extended rental periods (when the customer chooses to keep the
product beyond the original rental period) is recognized when the extended
rental period begins. Revenue recorded for extended rental periods is net of
estimated amounts that the Company does not anticipate collecting based upon
its historical collection experience.

Gift card liability

Gift card liabilities are recorded at the time of sale.  Costs of designing,
printing and distributing the cards, and transactional processing costs, are
expensed as incurred.  The liability is relieved and revenue is recognized upon
redemption of the gift cards at any Hollywood Video store.

Cost of Rental

Cost of rental includes revenue sharing expense, amortization of
videocassettes, DVDs and games, and book value of inventory loss.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

The Company considers highly liquid investment instruments, with an original
maturity of three months or less, to be cash equivalents.  The carrying amounts
of cash and cash equivalents equals fair market value.

Inventories

Merchandise inventories, consisting primarily of prerecorded videocassettes,
concessions, and other accessories held for resale, are stated at the lower of
cost or market (or, in the case of rental inventory, transferred to merchandise
inventory at the carrying value thereof at the time of transfer).  Cost of
sales is determined using an average costing method.  Rental inventory, which
includes VHS videocassettes, DVDs and video games is stated at cost and
amortized over its estimated useful life to a specified residual value.
Shipping and handling charges related to the rental and sale of inventory are
included in cost of rental and in cost of product. See Notes 4 and 5 for a
discussion of the amortization policy applied to rental inventory.

Property, Equipment, Depreciation and Amortization

Property is stated at cost and is depreciated on a straight-line basis for
financial reporting purposes over the estimated useful life of the assets,
which range from approximately five to ten years.  Leasehold improvements are
amortized primarily over ten years, which generally approximates the term of
the lease.

Additions to property and equipment are capitalized and include acquisitions of
property and equipment, costs incurred in the development and construction of
new stores, major improvements to existing property and major improvements in
management information systems.  Maintenance and repair costs are charged to
expense as incurred, while improvements that extend the useful life of the
assets are capitalized.  As property and equipment is sold or retired, the
applicable cost and accumulated depreciation and amortization are eliminated
from the accounts and any gain or loss thereon is recorded.

In 1998, the Company adopted Statement of Position 98-1 ("SOP 98-1"), which
defines the types of costs that may be capitalized for internally developed
computer software. Accordingly, the Company capitalized $0.3 in 1999. The
Company did not incur costs in 2000 or 2001 that meets the capitalization
requirements.

Long-lived Assets

The Company reviews for impairment long-lived assets and goodwill to be held
and used in the business whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company
periodically reviews and monitors its internal management reports for
indicators of impairment. The Company considers a trend of unsatisfactory
operating results that are not in line with management's expectations to be its
primary indicator of potential impairment.  When an indicator of impairment is
noted, assets are evaluated for impairment at the lowest level for which there
are identifiable cash flows (e.g., at the store level).  The Company deems a
store to be impaired if a forecast of undiscounted future operating cash flows
directly related to the store, including estimated disposal value, if any, is
less than the asset carrying amount. If a store is determined to be impaired,
the loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the store
exceeds its fair value. Fair value is estimated using a discounted future cash
flow valuation technique similar to that used by management in making a new
investment decision. Considerable management judgment and assumptions are
necessary to identify indicators of impairment and to estimate discounted
future cash flows. Accordingly, actual results could vary significantly from
such estimates. See Note 8 for estimated impairments at December 31, 2000.
There was no impairment charge in 2001.

Store Closure Reserves

Reserves for store closures are established by calculating the present value of
the remaining lease obligation, adjusted for estimated subtenant agreements or
lease buyouts, if any, and are expensed along with any leasehold improvements.
Store furniture and equipment are either transferred at historical costs to
another location or disposed of and written-off.

Litigation Liabilities

All material litigation loss contingencies, which are judged to be both
probable and estimable, are recorded as liabilities in the Consolidated
Financial Statements in amounts equal to the Company's best estimates of the
costs of resolving or disposing of the underlying claims. These estimates are
based upon judgments and assumptions. The Company regularly monitors its
estimates in light of subsequent developments and changes in circumstances and
adjusts its estimates when additional information causes the Company to believe
that they are no longer accurate. If no particular amount is determined to
constitute the Company's best estimate of a particular litigation loss
contingency, the amount representing the low end of the range of the Company's
estimate of the costs of resolving or disposing of the underlying claims is
recorded as a liability and the range of such estimates is disclosed.

Treasury Stock

In accordance with Oregon law, shares are automatically retired and classified
as available for issuance upon the repurchase of common stock.

Income Taxes

The Company calculates income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109,
"Accounting for Income Taxes", which requires recognition of deferred tax
liabilities and assets for the expected future tax consequences of events that
have been included in the financial statements and tax returns. Valuation
allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the
amount expected to be realized.

Deferred Rent

Many of the Company's operating leases contain predetermined fixed increases of
the minimum rental rate during the initial lease term.  For these leases, the
Company recognizes the related rental expense on a straight-line basis and
records the difference between the amount charged to expense and the rent paid
as deferred rent and is included in other liabilities.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

In accordance with SFAS No. 107, "Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial
Instruments", the Company has disclosed the fair value, related carrying value
and method for determining the fair value for the following financial
instruments in the accompanying notes as referenced: cash and cash equivalents
(see above), accounts receivable (see Note 2), and long-term obligations (see
Note 16).

The Company's receivables do not represent significant concentrations of credit
risk at December 31, 2001, due to the wide variety of customers, markets and
geographic areas to which the Company's products are rented and sold.

Comprehensive Income

Comprehensive income (loss) is equal to net income (loss) for all periods
presented.

Advertising

The Company receives cooperative reimbursements from vendors as eligible
expenditures occur relative to the promotion of rental and sales product.
Advertising costs, net of these reimbursements, are expensed as incurred.
Advertising expense was $5.1 million, $25.6 million and $1.2 for 2001, 2000 and
1999, respectively.

Store Pre-opening Costs

Store pre-opening costs, including store employee labor costs and advertising,
incurred prior to the opening of a new store had been expensed during the first
full month of a store's operation.  In April 1998, Statement of Position 98-5
(SOP 98-5), "Reporting on the Costs of Start-up Activities" was finalized,
which requires that costs incurred for start-up activities, such as store
openings, be expensed as incurred.  The Company adopted SOP 98-5 effective
January 1, 1999.  The cumulative effect of the change was to increase net loss
by $1.4 million, net of tax.


2.   ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

Accounts receivable as of December 31, 2001 and 2000 consists of
(in thousands):

                                         ----------------------
                                            2001         2000
                                         ----------   ---------
      Construction receivables           $      600   $   1,266
      Additional rental fees                 18,200      17,425
      Marketing                              12,253      11,430
      Due from employees                      2,051       1,866
      Licensee receivables                      623           -
      Other                                     389         593
                                         ----------   ---------
                                             34,116      32,580

      Allowance for doubtful accounts        (5,060)     (8,750)

                                         ----------   ---------
                                             29,056      23,830
                                         ==========   =========

The carrying amount of accounts receivable approximates fair value because of
the short maturity of those receivables. The allowance for doubtful accounts is
primarily for marketing and due from employees.


3.   RENTAL INVENTORY

Rental inventory as of December 31, 2001 and 2000 consists of (in thousands):

                                         -------------------------
                                             2001           2000
                                         ----------     ----------
   Rental inventory                      $  675,469     $  604,715
   Less accumulated amortization           (484,453)      (436,253)
                                         ----------     ----------
                                         $  191,016     $  168,462
                                         ==========     ==========

Amortization expense related to rental inventory was $180.2 million, $340.8
million and $107.6 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, and is
included in cost of rental. Amortization in 2000 included a $164.3 million
charge for changes in estimated useful lives and salvage values of various
types of rental product (see Note 5). As rental inventory is transferred to
merchandise inventory and sold (previously-viewed product), the applicable cost
and accumulated amortization are eliminated from the accounts, determined on a
first-in-first-out ("FIFO") basis applied in the aggregate to monthly
purchases.


4.   RENTAL INVENTORY AMORTIZATION POLICY

For new release tapes acquired under revenue sharing, the studio's share of
rental revenue is expensed net of an average estimated interim residual value
established in rental inventory of $3 per tape. The expense is recorded as
revenue is earned on the respective revenue sharing titles. Tapes that remain
in the Company's rental inventory are amortized to $2 in one year.

New release fixed price purchases of VHS, DVD and game inventories are
amortized to an estimated interim residual value in four months and then to an
estimated ending residual value over the remaining estimated useful life. In
2001 these estimates were as follows:

                  Interim        Ending        Useful
                  Residual      Residual        Life
                  --------      --------      --------
VHS                $ 3.61          $2          1 year
DVD                $ 6.88          $6          5 years
Games              $14.16          $5          2 years

Purchases of catalog product, including new store purchases, are amortized on a
straight-line basis to the estimated ending residual values over the estimated
useful lives noted above.


5.   AMORTIZATION POLICY CHANGE IN ESTIMATE IN 2000

During the fourth quarter of 2000, the Company made the following key
observations leading management to change estimates regarding rental inventory
lives and residual values.

- -  Growth in DVD rental revenue exceeded the Company's original estimates and
has negatively impacted revenue from VHS product.

- -  In December 2000, rental revenue from DVD product surpassed rental revenue
from catalog VHS product.

- -  The average sales price of previously-viewed VHS movies in fourth quarter of
2000 declined by 24% compared to the third quarter of 2000.

- -  The decline in new store openings has caused a build-up of VHS and game
inventory in the Company's warehouse.

Based on the observations noted above, and revised internal estimates on the
growth of DVD rental revenue, the Company's amortization policy with revised
estimates compared to previous estimates is as follows:

- -  All catalog VHS product, regardless of the method of acquisition, is
amortized straight-line with an estimated useful life of one year compared to
the previous estimate of five years, and an estimated residual value of $2
compared to the previous estimate of $6.

- -  For new release tapes acquired under revenue sharing, the studios share of
rental revenue is expensed net of an average value established in rental
inventory, prior to amortization, of $3 compared to the previous estimate of
$4. Tapes that remain in the Company's rental inventory are amortized to $2 in
one year.

- -  New release VHS tapes acquired under methods other than revenue sharing are
amortized to an average value of approximately $4 in the first four months
compared to the previous estimate of $8. Tapes that remain in the Company's
rental inventory are amortized to $2 in one year.

- -  DVD rental inventory is amortized on an accelerated basis to an average
value of approximately $7 in the first four months. DVDs that remain in the
Company's rental inventory are amortized to $6 in 60 months. Prior to the
change in estimate, all purchases of DVD rental inventory were amortized
straight-line to a residual value of $6 in 60 months.

- -  Game rental inventory is amortized on an accelerated basis to an average
value of approximately $14 in the first four months. Games that remain in the
Company's rental inventory are amortized to $5 in 24 months. Prior to the
change in estimate, Game rental inventory was amortized on an accelerated basis
to an average value of approximately $14.50 in the first twelve months and the
catalog residual value was $8.

The Company adopted these changes in estimate prospectively on October 1, 2000.
The change resulted in a $164.3 million increase to amortization expense in the
fourth quarter of 2000 and is classified as cost of rental on the consolidated
statement of operations. This change in estimate increased net loss by $164.3
million and increased net loss per share by $3.56.


6.   PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

Property and equipment as of December 31, 2001 and 2000 consists of
  (in thousands):

                                              ---------------------
                                                 2001        2000
                                              ---------  ----------
        Fixtures and equipment                $ 165,723  $  156,960
        Leasehold improvements                  360,569     352,245
        Equipment under capital lease            15,879      19,578
        Leasehold improvements under
         capital lease                           37,112      44,279
                                              ---------  ----------
                                                579,283     573,062
        Less accumulated depreciation
         and amortization                      (308,697)   (249,396)
                                              ---------  ----------
                                              $ 270,586  $  323,666
                                              =========  ==========

Accumulated depreciation and amortization, as presented above, includes
accumulated amortization of assets under capital leases of $17.5 million and
$16.4 million at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively.  Depreciation
expense related to property, plant and equipment was $61.9 million, $114.2
million and $57.2 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.


7.  STORE CLOSURE RESTRUCTURING

In December 2000, the Company approved a restructuring plan involving the
closure and disposition of 43 stores that were not operating to management's
expectations (the "Restructuring Plan"). In the fourth quarter of 2000, the
Company recorded charges aggregating $16.9 million, including an $8.0 million
write down of property and equipment, a $1.5 million write down of goodwill and
an accrual for store closing costs of $7.4 million.  The established reserve
for cash expenditures is for lease termination fees and other store closure
costs. The Company has liquidated and plans to continue liquidating related
store inventories through store closing sales; any remaining product will be
used in other stores.

Revenue during the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999 for the stores
included in the Restructuring Plan was approximately $15.5 million and $13.4
million, respectively.  Operating results (defined as income or loss before
interest expense and income taxes) during the years ended December 31, 2000 and
1999 for the stores included in the Restructuring Plan were approximately $1.8
million loss and $0.5 million loss, respectively. For the twelve months ended
December 31, 2001, these stores recorded a combined net loss of $2.5 million
that is included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.

As of December 31, 2001, the Company had closed 12 of the 43 scheduled stores
that are included in the Restructuring Plan. The Company incurred $329,867 in
expenses during the twelve months ended December 31, 2001 related to the
closures and received $450,000 to exit one of the leases.

In December of 2001, the Company amended the Restructuring Plan and removed 16
stores from the closure list. The Company anticipates closing the remaining 15
stores in 2002. In accordance with the amended plan, and updated estimates on
closing costs, the Company reversed $3.8 million of the original $16.9 million
charge, leaving a $3.7 million accrual balance at December 31, 2001 for store
closing costs.


8.  IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

In the fourth quarter of 2000, the Company experienced negative same store
sales for the first time in 21 quarters while major competitors experienced
positive same store sales. With a strong slate of new release titles, this
decline in same store sales was unexpected and occurred at a time when the
Company was facing substantial uncertainty with respect to its liquidity. These
changes in circumstance triggered an impairment analysis in accordance with the
Company's policy outlined in Note 1.  The Company identified 293 impaired
stores and recorded a charge of $74.3 million. The non-cash charge included
$44.3 million classified as operating and selling expenses in the consolidated
statement of operations that reduced the net carrying amount of property and
equipment, and $30 million classified as amortization of intangibles that
reduced the net carrying amount of goodwill. Property and equipment primarily
consisted of leasehold improvements and fixtures that could not be used in
other locations.


9.   GOODWILL

Goodwill as of December 31, 2001 and 2000 consists of:
  (in thousands)
                                --------------------
                                   2001       2000
                                ---------  ---------
     Goodwill                   $ 134,309  $ 134,309
     Less accumulated
       amortization               (69,375)   (64,693)
                                ---------  ---------
                                $  64,934  $  69,616
                                =========  =========

Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets
purchased and has been amortizing on a straight-line basis over two or 20
years. Goodwill in connection with store acquisitions has been amortizing over
20 years. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
142, goodwill will no longer be amortized (see Note 1 under the heading
"Recently Issued Accounting Standards" for a discussion of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 142). Goodwill from the Reel.com acquisition was amortized over
two years prior to the discontinuation of Reel.com's e-commerce operations in
June 2000. Amortization expense was $5.1 million, $ 59.9 million and $56.9
million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.  In the second quarter of 2000,
the Company recorded a $69.3 million charge in connection with the
restructuring of Reel.com, including a $14.9 million write-down of goodwill
(see Note 11). During the fourth quarter of 2000, a plan was developed to close
43 stores, of which, 5 were acquired stores. The Company recorded a
restructuring charge of $16.9 million, including a write-down of $1.5 million
of goodwill associated with the acquired stores (see Note 7). The Company also
determined estimated future undiscounted cash flows on several additional
acquired stores were less than the net carrying amount of assets associated
with each store (see Note 8). As required by FAS 121, the Company recorded an
impairment charge of $74.3 million, including a $30 million write-down of
goodwill.


10.   STORE ACQUISITIONS

Store growth in 2001 and 2000 did not include any acquired stores.

During 1999, the Company acquired the operations and assets of 49 video
superstores for an aggregate purchase price of $17.4 million.  The acquisitions
were accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. Approximately $14.6
million was allocated to goodwill.  The results of operations for these
acquisitions do not have a material effect on the consolidated operating
results, and therefore, no pro forma data has been presented.


11. REEL.COM DISCONTINUED E-COMMERCE OPERATIONS

On June 12, 2000, the Company announced that it would discontinue the e-
commerce business of Reel.com. Although the Company had developed a leading
website over the seven quarters after Reel.com was purchased in October of
1998, Reel.com's business model of rapid customer acquisition led to large
operating losses and required significant cash funding.  Due to market
conditions, the Company was unable to obtain outside financing for Reel.com,
and could not justify continued funding from its superstore cash flow. On June
13, 2000, the Company terminated the employment of approximately 200 of
Reel.com's 240 employees, and paid $1.9 million in involuntary termination
benefits. The remaining employees have since been terminated or integrated into
Hollywood Entertainment.

As a result of the discontinuation of Reel.com's e-commerce operations, the
Company recorded a total charge of $69.3 million in the second quarter of 2000,
of which $48.5 million was classified as a restructuring charge on the
consolidated statement of operations and $20.8 million was included in cost of
product sales. The charge was reduced by $1.6 million to $46.9 million in the
fourth quarter of 2000, and also reduced by $3.3 million to $43.6 million in
the fourth quarter of 2001, because the Company was able to negotiate
termination of certain obligations and lease commitments more favorably than
originally anticipated.

The restructuring charge line item included $1.9 million of severance and
benefits paid on June 13, 2000, $19.3 million of asset impairment charges, and
$22.4 million (net of reductions) of accrued liabilities.  The asset impairment
charges included the write-off of the remaining $14.9 million of goodwill
associated with the acquisition of Reel.com, and $4.4 million to write down
equipment, leasehold improvements, prepaid expenses and accounts receivable to
their net realizable values. Amounts accrued included $17.3 (net of reductions)
million for contractual obligations, lease commitments and anticipated legal
claims against the Company and $5.1 (net of reductions) million for legal,
financial, and other professional services incurred as a direct result of the
closure of Reel.com. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had paid $7.4 million
of the accrued amounts.

The Company used some of the equipment from Reel.com at the distribution center
in Nashville, Tennessee, and at the corporate offices in Wilsonville, Oregon.
Equipment not used by the Company was sold. Proceeds of $250,000 were received
in the third quarter of 2000.

The $20.8 million write down of Reel.com inventory, primarily DVD's, to net
realizable value was charged to cost of product. This represented excess
product for the Hollywood Video segment. The Company liquidated over 85% of
this inventory in 2000. The remaining amount was liquidated or integrated into
Hollywood Video inventory in 2001.


12.   OPERATING LEASES

The Company leases all of its stores, corporate offices, distribution center
and zone offices under non-cancelable operating leases.  All of the Company's
stores have an initial operating lease term of five to 15 years and most have
options to renew for between five and 15 additional years.  Most operating
leases require payment of property taxes, utilities, common area maintenance
and insurance.  Total rent expense, including related lease-required costs,
incurred during 2001, 2000, and 1999 was $253.1 million, $243.9 million and
$201.6 million, respectively.

At December 31, 2001,the future minimum annual rental commitments under non-
cancelable operating leases were as follows (in thousands):


               ------------------------------
               Year Ending         Operating
               December 31,         Leases
               ------------------------------
               2002                $217,491
               2003                 215,895
               2004                 210,362
               2005                 199,976
               2006                 179,808
               Thereafter           538,020


13. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED LIABILITIES

Accounts payable includes accrued revenue sharing (amounts accrued pursuant to
revenue sharing arrangements in which the Company had not yet received an
invoice). Accrued revenue sharing was $20.6 million and $30.9 at December 31,
2001, and 2000, respectively.

Accrued liabilities as of December 31, 2001 and 2000 consist of
(in thousands):
                                         ----------------------
                                            2001         2000
                                         ----------   ---------

      Payroll and benefits                   25,143      19,431
      Property taxes and common
       area maintenance                      10,241      16,340
      Gift certificates and coupons          13,940       6,226
      Marketing                               8,054      14,409
      Store closures and lease
       terminations                           7,977      17,071
      Reel.com restructuring                 15,000      21,455
      Other operating and general
       administration                        32,444      19,701
                                         ----------   ---------
                                         $  112,799   $ 114,633
                                         ==========   =========


14.   EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

The Company is self-insured for employee medical benefits under the Company's
group health plan.  The Company maintains stop loss coverage for individual
claims in excess of $100,000 and for annual Company claims which exceed
approximately $7.3 million in the aggregate.  While the ultimate amount of
claims incurred is dependent on future developments, in management's opinion,
recorded reserves are adequate to cover the future payment of claims.
Adjustments, if any, to recorded estimates of the Company's potential claims
liability will be reflected in results of operations for the period in which
such adjustments are determined to be appropriate on the basis of actual
payment experience or other changes in circumstances.

The Company has a 401(k) plan in which eligible employees may elect to
contribute up to 20% of their earnings. Eligible employees are at least 21
years of age, have completed at least one year of service and work at least
1,000 hours in a year. The Company began matching 25% of the employees first 6%
of contributions in January 2000. There were no matching contributions in 1999.

Beginning in April 2000, the Company offered a deferred compensation plan to
certain key employees designated by the Company. The plan allows for the
deferral and investment of current compensation on a pre-tax basis.  The
Company has accrued approximately $112,069 and $201,593 related to this plan at
2001 and 2000, respectively.


15. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

In May 2000, the Company's Board of Directors approved a five-year $15 million
loan to Mr. Mark J. Wattles (with a secondary security interest in the
Company's common stock that he owned), which bore interest at an annual rate
equal to the greater of ten percent or the minimum rate required under the
Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder, to avoid imputed interest on
loans to affiliated persons.  In December 2000, the Company's Board of
Directors determined that the loan was uncollectable and directed the Company
to write-off the loan.

On January 25, 2001, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of
the Company unanimously approved an employment agreement between the Company
and Mark J. Wattles as President and Chief Executive Officer. Pursuant to the
terms of the agreement, Mr. Wattles received a grant of 3 million shares of
common stock on January 25, 2001. On the date of the grant, the shares had a
market value of $3.28 million.

In July 2001, Boards, Inc. (Boards) opened two Hollywood Video stores as
licensee of the Company pursuant to rights granted by the Company and approved
by the Board of Directors in January 2001.  These stores will be operated by
Boards and are not included in the 1,801 stores operated by the Company. Mark
Wattles, the Company's Founder, Chief Executive Officer and President, is the
majority owner of Boards. Under the license arrangement, Boards will pay the
Company $25,000 per store, a royalty of 2% of revenue and may purchase product
and services from the Company. At December 31, 2001, Boards owed the Company
approximately $623,000 for fees, services, and product including rental
inventory to open the stores. On February 15, 2002, Boards paid the Company
$643,953.


16.  LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS AND LIQUIDITY

The Company had the following long-term obligations as of December 31, 2001 and
2000 (in thousands):

                                                      December 31,
                                              -----------    ----------
                                                 2001            2000
                                              -----------    ----------
Senior subordinated notes (1)                 $   250,000    $  250,000
Borrowings under revolving credit facility        240,000       245,000
Obligations under capital leases                   24,002        41,396
Other                                                   -             5
                                              -----------    ----------
                                                  514,002       536,401
Current portions:
   Credit facility                                 98,500       245,000 (2)
   Capital leases & other                          13,414        16,164
                                              -----------    ----------
                                                  111,914       261,164
Total long-term obligations                   -----------    ----------
   net of current portion                     $   402,088    $  275,237
                                              ===========    ==========

(1) Coupon payments at 10.625% are due semi-annually in February and August of
each year.

(2) Includes $112.5 million with a scheduled maturity in 2002 that was
reclassified as current portion in accordance with FAS 78, Classification of
Obligations That Are Callable by the Creditor, due to covenant violations that,
as of December 31, 2000, were not waived beyond May 5, 2001.

At December 31, 2001, maturities on long-term obligations for the next five
years were as follows (in thousands):

                                                 Capital
Year Ending        Subordinated     Credit        Leases
December, 31           Notes       Facility      & Other      Total
- ------------        ----------    ----------    ---------   ---------
2002                 $       -    $   98,500    $  13,414  $  111,914
2003                         -       141,500       10,588     152,088
2004                   250,000             -            -     250,000
2005                         -             -            -           -
2006                         -             -            -           -
Thereafter                   -             -            -           -
                   -----------    ----------    ---------   ---------
                    $  250,000    $  240,000    $  24,002   $ 514,002
                   -----------    ----------    ---------   ---------

At December 31, 2001, $250 million of the Company's senior subordinated notes
(the "Notes") due August 15, 2004 were outstanding. The Notes are redeemable,
at the option of the Company, as of August 14, 2001 at rates starting at
105.313% of principal amount reduced annually through August 15, 2003, at which
time they become redeemable at 100% of the principal amount. The terms of the
Notes may restrict, among other things, the payment of dividends and other
distributions, investments, the repurchase of capital stock and the making of
certain other restricted payments by the Company, the incurrence of additional
indebtedness by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, and certain mergers,
consolidations and disposition of assets.  Additionally, if a change of control
occurs, as defined, each holder of the Notes will have the right to require the
Company to repurchase such holder's Notes at 101% of principal amount thereof.

The Company is limited in the amount of cash dividends that it can pay and the
amount of common stock and subordinated indebtedness that it may repurchase by
applicable covenants contained in the Notes.

At December 31, 2001 the Company had a total of $241.5 million of borrowing
capacity under its revolving credit facility, of which amount $240.0 million
was outstanding. Revolving credit loans under the facility bear interest, at
the Company's option, at an applicable margin over the bank's base rate loan or
the IBOR rate. At December 31, 2001, the margin over IBOR was at 5% and will
step down if certain performance targets are met. Among other restrictions, the
facility contains financial covenants relating to specified levels of
indebtedness to adjusted net cash EBITDA.  Adjusted net cash EBITDA is defined
as income from operations before depreciation and amortization plus non-cash
expenses that reduced EBITDA, less the cost of acquiring new release
videocassettes, game inventory and new store rental inventory which is
capitalized.  Other ratios and restrictions include: adjusted net cash EBITDA
less cash taxes paid compared to interest expense; adjusted net cash EBITDA
less cash taxes paid plus rent expense compared to interest expense plus rent
expense; maintenance of average store contribution levels; and the maintenance
of minimum tangible net worth. Amounts outstanding under the credit agreement
are collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company.

On December 7, 2001, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission a shelf registration statement covering up to $110,000,000 of its
common stock (together with up to an additional $16,500,000 of its common stock
for purposes of satisfying any over-allotment options) and up to $300,000,000
of non-convertible debt securities. On December 10, 2001 the Company announced
that it received a fully underwritten commitment from UBS Warburg LLC for a new
bank credit facility. The credit facility, consisting of a $150.0 million
senior secured term loan maturing in 2004 and a $25.0 million senior secured
revolving credit facility maturing in 2004, is subject to various conditions,
including the sale by the Company of at least $100.0 million of its common
stock and the application of the proceeds of such sale, together with the
initial borrowings under the new bank credit facility, to the repayment of all
borrowings under the Company's existing bank credit facility. The commitment
expires on March 31, 2002.

On February 15, 2002 the Company announced that the shelf registration
statement became effective and that the Company intends to commence an offering
of approximately 7,000,000 shares of its common stock through managing
underwriters UBS Warburg LLC, Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., Robertson Stephens,
Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities LLC. The Company intends to use the net
proceeds of the offering of common stock to repay a portion of the amounts
outstanding under the existing revolving credit facility and intends to repay
the remaining amounts outstanding with initial borrowings under the new bank
facility described above.

As of December 31, 2001, the fair value of the Notes was $252.5 million. The
fair value of the Notes was based on quoted market prices as of December 31,
2001.  The revolving credit facility is a variable rate loan, and thus, the
fair value approximates the carrying amount as of December 31, 2001.

As of December 31, 2001, the Company had $2.1 million of outstanding letters of
credit.


17.  INCOME TAXES

The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for the years ended December
31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 consists of: (in thousands)


                                      ------------------------------
                                          2001      2000      1999
                                      ----------  --------  --------
        Current:
         Federal                       $    312   $  3,396  $  2,802
         State                              816      2,391     1,064
                                      ---------   --------  --------
         Total current provision          1,128      5,787     3,866

        Deferred:
         Federal                        (30,852)    22,523    (2,450)
         State                           (7,544)     3,282       452
                                      ---------   --------  --------
         Total deferred liability
           (benefit)                    (38,396)    25,805    (1,998)
                                      ---------   --------  --------
         Total provision (benefit)     $(37,268)  $ 31,592  $  1,868
                                      =========   ========  ========

The Company is subject to minimum state taxes in excess of statutory state
income taxes in many of the states in which it operates.  These taxes are
included in the current provision for state and local income taxes.  Certain
acquisitions in 1995 and the Reel.com acquisition in 1998 yielded non-
deductible, goodwill which is reflected in the tax rate reconciliation below.
The tax impact of purchase accounting adjustments is reflected in deferred
taxes. A reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate with the
Company's effective tax rate is as follows:

                                               --------------------------
                                                 2001      2000     1999
                                               --------  -------  -------
       Statutory federal rate
        provision (benefit)                       34.0%   (34.0%)  (34.0%)
       State income taxes, net of
        federal income tax benefit                 4.4     (3.5)     2.1
       Amortization of non-deductible
        goodwill                                   0.1      2.6     35.7
	 Net non-deductible expenses  		   3.8 	      -        -
 	 Unused federal credits		          (1.2)	      -        -
	 Increase (decrease)in valuation
        allowance				(100.5)    41.3        -
       Other, net                                  0.4     (0.1)     0.1
                                               --------  -------  -------
                                                 (59.0%)    6.3%     3.9%
                                               ========  =======  =======

Deferred income taxes reflect the impact of "temporary differences" between
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and such
amounts as measured by tax laws.  The tax effects of temporary differences that
give rise to significant portions of deferred tax assets and liabilities at
December 31 are as follows: (in thousands)

                                                ----------------------
                                                    2001        2000
                                                ----------   ---------
      Deferred tax assets:
	 Tax loss carryforward		          $116,200    $122,702
	 Deferred rent			             7,574       7,775
	 Financial leases			     8,270       8,161
	 Accrued liabilities and reserves	    18,991	18,790
	 Tax credit carryforward	             4,836       3,456
	 Restructure charges			    10,360      13,735
	 Accrued legal settlement		       130	   522
  	 Inventory valuation			    33,470	59,358
	 Amortization			            11,842      14,237
					        ----------   ---------
	 Total deferred tax assets		   211,673     248,736
	 Valuation allowance		          (147,790)   (211,247)
					        ----------   ---------
	 Net deferred tax assets		    63,883      37,489
					        ----------   ---------
	Deferred tax liabilities:
	 Depreciation and amortization		   (20,264)   (32,843)
       Capitalized leases			    (5,223)    (4,646)
					        ----------   ---------
  	 Total deferred tax liabilities		   (25,487)   (37,489)
					        ----------   ---------
 	Net deferred tax asset (liability)	   $38,396    $      -
						==========   =========

The valuation allowance of $147.8 million as of December 31, 2001 represents a
provision for the uncertainty as to the realization of deferred tax assets,
including temporary differences and net operating loss carryforwards. The
Company has determined that it is more likely than not that certain future tax
benefits will be realized as a result of current and future income.
Accordingly, the valuation allowance has been reduced in the current year to
reflect greater anticipated net deferred tax asset utilization.  As of December
31, 2001, the Company had approximately $302.2 million of net operating loss
carryforwards available to reduce future income taxes.  The carryforward
periods expire in years 2010 through 2020.  The Company has federal Alternative
Minimum Tax ("AMT") credit carryforwards of $3.3 million which are available to
reduce future regular taxes in excess of AMT.  These credits have no expiration
date.  The Company has federal and state tax credit carryforwards of $1.5
million which are available to reduce future taxes.  The carryforward periods
expire in years 2018 through 2021, or have no expiration date.

The Company may realize tax benefits as a result of the exercise of certain
employee stock options.  For financial reporting purposes, any reduction in
income tax obligations as a result of these tax benefits is credited to
shareholders' equity.


18.  SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

Preferred Stock

At December 31, 2001, the Company was authorized to issue 25,000,000 shares of
preferred stock in one or more series.  With the exception of 3,119,737 shares
which have been designated as "Series A Redeemable Preferred Stock" but have
not been issued, the Board of Directors has authority to designate the
preferences, special rights, limitations or restrictions of such shares.

Common Stock

On January 24, 2000, the Company issued to Rentrak Corporation 200,000 shares
of common stock as part of a litigation settlement.


19.   STOCK OPTION PLANS

In general, the Company's stock option plans provide for the granting of
options to purchase Company shares at a fixed price. It has been the Company's
Board of Directors general policy to set the price at the market price of such
shares as of the option grant date.  The options generally have a nine year
term and become exercisable on a pro rata basis over three years.  The Company
adopted stock option plans in 1993, 1997 and 2001 providing for the granting of
non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, bonus rights and other
incentive grants to employees up to an aggregate of 19,000,000 shares of common
stock. The Company granted non-qualified stock options pursuant to the 1993,
1997 and 2001 Plans totaling 11,063,683, 2,512,650 and 2,804,925 in 2001, 2000
and 1999, respectively.

The Company has elected to follow APB No. 25;  "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees" ("APB 25"), and related interpretations in accounting for its
employee stock options.  Under APB 25, because the exercise price of the
Company's employee stock options equals the market price of the underlying
stock on the date of the grant, no compensation expense is recognized.  Pro
forma information regarding net income per share is required by SFAS No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", and has been determined as if the
Company had accounted for its employee stock options under the fair value
method of that statement.  The fair value of these options was estimated at the
date of grant using Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following
weighted-average assumptions for 2001, 2000 and 1999:

                                    -----------------------------
                                        2001    2000     1999
                                    -----------------------------
      Risk free interest rate          3.87%    4.87%    6.33%
      Expected dividend yield             0%       0%       0%
      Expected lives                  3 years   5 years  5 years
      Expected volatility               100%      98%      85%

The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating
the fair value of traded options, which have no vesting restrictions and are
fully transferable.  Because the Company's employee stock options have
characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and
because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the
fair value estimate, in the Company's opinion, the existing available models do
not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of the
Company's employee stock options.

Using the Black-Scholes option valuation model, the weighted average grant date
value of options granted during 2001, 2000 and 1999 (excluding the options
assumed in connection with the Reel.com acquisition) was $1.55, $5.32, and
$9.95 per option, respectively.

For the purpose of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the
options is amortized over the option's vesting period. The value of options
issued in connection with the Reel.com acquisition are excluded from the pro
forma disclosure as the value of these options was part of the acquisition
purchase price.

The Company's pro forma information is as follows:
  (in thousands, except per share amounts)


                                             December 31,
                  -----------------------------------------------------------
                          2001                 2000                1999
                  -------------------  -------------------  -----------------
                               Pro                 Pro                  Pro
                   Reported   Forma     Reported  Forma     Reported   Forma
                   -------- ---------   -------- ---------  -------- --------
Net income
 (loss)            $100,416 $  97,490  $(530,040)$(538,886) $(51,302)$(57,665)
Earnings (loss)
 per Share:
  Basic                2.05      1.99     (11.48)   (11.68)    (1.13)   (1.26)
  Diluted              1.90      1.84     (11.48)   (11.68)    (1.13)   (1.26)


Due to the Company's losses in 2000 and 1999, a calculation of earnings per
share assuming dilution is not required.  In 2000 and 1999 dilutive securities
consisting of options convertible into 5.4 million and 8.2 million shares of
common stock, respectively, were excluded from the reported and pro forma
calculations due to the net loss in each year.

A summary of the Company's stock option activity and related information for
2001, 2000 and 1999 is as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):

                                                    Weighted
                                                     Average
                                                    Exercise
                                           Shares     Price
                                          --------  --------
      Outstanding at December 31, 1998       7,460  $   9.40
        Granted                              2,805     14.05
        Exercised                             (889)     5.24
        Cancelled                           (1,189)     9.13
                                          --------  --------
      Outstanding at December 31, 1999       8,187     11.49
        Granted                              2,511      7.01
        Exercised                             (226)     3.52
        Cancelled                           (5,050)    11.81
                                          --------  --------
      Outstanding as December 31, 2000       5,422      9.45
        Granted                             11,064      2.05
        Exercised                             (181)     6.24
        Cancelled                           (3,951)     7.39
                                          --------  --------
      Outstanding as December 31, 2001      12,354  $   3.52
                                          ========  ========


A  summary  of options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2001  is  as
follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):

                  ------------------------------   -------------------
                        Options Outstanding        Options Exercisable
                  ------------------------------   -------------------
                            Weighted
                             Average    Weighted              Weighted
                           Remaining     Average               Average
   Range of                     Life    Exercise              Exercise
Exercise Prices   Options  (in years)      Price   Options       Price
- ---------------   -------  ---------    --------   -------    --------
$ 0.56 - $1.56     8,293        8.23    $   1.17       146    $   1.07
  2.04 -  9.63     2,689        7.26        5.26       561        7.30
  9.90 - 15.00       837        6.84       11.70       301       11.17
 15.20 - 19.62       535        4.14       18.45       418       18.54
                  ------   ---------    --------   -------    --------
                  12,354        7.75    $   3.52     1,426    $  10.78
                  ======   =========    ========   =======    ========


In the first quarter of 2000, the Company granted stock options to
approximately fifty key employees.  The grants were for the same number of
shares issued to these employees prior to January 1, 2000. In the third quarter
of 2000, the Company cancelled the stock options that were issued prior to
January 1, 2000 for the fifty employees. The grant and cancellation of the same
number of options for these employees resulted in variable accounting treatment
for the related options for 850,000 shares of the Company's common stock.
Variable accounting treatment will result in unpredictable stock-based
compensation dependent on fluctuations in quoted prices for the Company's
common stock.

The Company recorded compensation expense relating to the variable stock option
plan of $2.5 million in 2001.  The Company had no compensation expense recorded
relating to the variable stock compensation plan in 2000 or 1999.  The Company
had 482,750 variable options outstanding at December 31, 2001, 850,000 variable
options outstanding at December 31, 2000 and no variable options outstanding at
December 31, 1999.

The Company recorded compensation expense related to certain stock options
issued below the fair market value of the related stock.  The Company recorded
compensation expense in the amount of $1.4 million for the year ended December
31, 2001.  There was no such compensation expense recorded in 2000 or 1999.

A summary of options granted compared to market price:

                  Options Granted                    Shares
                --------------------              ------------
                Price = Market Value                3,609,550
                Price > Market Value                  533,000
                Price < Market Value                6,921,133


20.  EARNINGS PER SHARE

A reconciliation of the basic and diluted per share computations for 2001,
2000 and 1999 is as follows (in thousands, except per share data):

                                      ----------------------------------
                                                     2001
                                      ----------------------------------
                                                    Weighted      Per
                                                     Average     Share
                                         Income      Shares      Amount
                                      ----------   ---------   ---------
Income per common share               $  100,416      49,101   $    2.05

Effect of dilutive securities:
 Stock options                                 -       3,779       (0.15)
                                      ----------   ---------   ---------
Income per share assuming dilution    $  100,416      52,880   $    1.90
                                      ==========   =========   =========


                                      ----------------------------------
                                                     2000
                                      ----------------------------------
                                                    Weighted      Per
                                                     Average     Share
                                        (Loss)       Shares      Amount
                                      ----------   ---------   ---------

Loss per common share                 $ (530,040)     46,151   $  (11.48)

Effect of dilutive securities:
 Stock options                                 -           -           -
                                      ----------   ---------   ---------
Loss per share assuming dilution      $ (530,040)     46,151   $  (11.48)
                                      ==========   =========   =========

                                      ----------------------------------
                                                     1999
                                      ----------------------------------
                                                    Weighted      Per
                                                     Average     Share
                                        (Loss)       Shares      Amount
                                      ----------   ---------   ---------
Loss before cumulative effect
 Adjustment                           $  (49,858)     45,592   $   (1.09)
Cumulative effect of a change in
 accounting principle, net of tax         (1,444)          -       (0.04)
                                      ----------   ---------   ---------
Loss per common share                 $  (51,302)     45,592   $   (1.13)

Effect of dilutive securities:
 Stock options                                 -           -           -
                                      ----------   ---------   ---------
Loss per share assuming dilution      $  (51,302)     45,592   $   (1.13)
                                      ==========   =========   =========

Due to the Company's losses in 2000 and 1999, a calculation of earnings per
share assuming dilution is not required. Antidilutive stock options excluded
from the calculation of diluted income (loss) in 2001, 2000, and 1999 was 3.0
million, 5.4 million and 8.2 million, respectively.


21.  SPECIAL AND/OR UNUSUAL ITEMS

The Company incurred the following special and/or unusual charges in 2001, 2000
and 1999.

2001

In December of 2001, the Company amended its store closure Restructuring Plan
and removed 16 stores from the closure list. In accordance with the amended
plan, and updated estimates on closing costs, the Company reversed $3.8 million
of the original $16.9 million charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2000
(Note 7).

In the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company reversed $3.3 million of accrued
liabilities related to the discontinuation of Reel.com's e-commerce operations
because the Company was able to negotiate termination of certain obligations
and lease commitments more favorably than originally anticipated (Note 11).

2000

On June 12 2000, the Company announced that it would close down the e-commerce
business of Reel.com. As a result, the Company recorded a total charge of $67.7
million, of which $46.9 million was classified as a restructuring charge on the
consolidated statement of operations and $20.8 million was included in cost of
product sales (Note 11).

Effective October 1, 2000, the Company changed several estimates regarding
useful lives and salvage values on various types of rental inventory. As a
result, the Company recorded a charge of $164.3 million to cost of rental on
the consolidated statement of operations (Note 5).

In the fourth quarter of 2000, the Company developed a plan to close a group of
stores by the end of 2001. The assets associated with each identified store
were removed from the books and estimated closing costs were accrued resulting
in a $16.9 million charge (Note 7).

In accordance with FASB Statement No. 121, the Company recorded a $74.3 million
charge to properly value long-lived assets at several stores (Note 8). The
charge included a $30 million write-down of goodwill, classified as
amortization of intangibles on the consolidated statement of operations, and a
$44.3 million write-down of property and equipment, classified as operating and
selling.

1999

The Company recorded a $23.1 million charge in connection with a legal
settlement with Rentrak Corporation. On January 24, 2000, the Company and
Rentrak Corporation reached a settlement of their dispute concerning revenue
sharing videocassettes Rentrak had provided to the Company.  The settlement
agreement resolves all disputes between the companies and dismisses all claims
against the Company. The settlement included $8.0 million in cash to cover
outstanding invoices and consideration for business disruption to Rentrak; $6.0
million to cover Rentrak's legal fees and costs; and finally, the Company
issued 200,000 shares of its common stock to Rentrak. Additionally, the Company
also incurred $5.8 million in legal fees related to the lawsuit.

On November 1, 1999, the Company and Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment
reached a settlement of their dispute.  Fox had filed suit alleging fraud and
interference with Fox's contract with Rentrak.  The Company incurred $2.3
million in settlement and related legal costs.


22.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

During 1999, Hollywood was named as a defendant in three complaints which have
been coordinated into a single action entitled California Exemption Cases, Case
No. CV779511, in the Superior Court of the State of California in and for the
County of Santa Clara. The plaintiffs are seeking to certify a class made up of
certain exempt current and former employees, which they claim are owed overtime
payments in certain stores in California.  The plaintiffs are also seeking
attorneys fees and costs. A class has not been certified.  The Company believes
it has provided adequate reserves in connection with this claim and intends to
vigorously defend the action.

On November 15, 2000, 3PF, a subsidiary of Rentrak Corporation filed a demand
for arbitration with the American Arbitration Association, Case No. 75 181
00413 00 GLO against Hollywood and Reel.com, Inc. ("Reel").  3PF and Reel
entered into a Warehousing and Distribution Agreement on February 7, 2000. 3PF
has alleged that Reel is in default under the Agreement, has failed to perform
material obligations under the Agreement, and has failed to pay amounts due
3PF.  3PF seeks to recover approximately $4.8 million and consequential
damages.  The Company believes it has provided adequate reserves in connection
with this claim and continues to vigorously defend the action.

The Company is a party to various claims, disputes, legal actions and other
proceedings involving contracts, employment and various other matters.  In the
opinion of management, the outcome of these matters should not have a material
adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition, results of
operations or liquidity.


23.  SEGMENT REPORTING

The Company identifies its segments based on management responsibility. The
Company only operated one segment in 2001, the Hollywood Video segment
consisting of the Company's 1,801 retail stores located in 47 states. The
Company operated two segments during the first six months of 2000, the
Hollywood Video segment, consisting of the Company's 1,818 retail stores
located in 47 states, and the Reel.com segment, primarily an e-commerce company
specializing in movies. During the prior year second quarter, the Company
announced the discontinuation of e-commerce operations of Reel.com. This
resulted in a restructuring charge (Note 11). All assets of Reel.com were
transferred to the Hollywood Video segment on June 12, 2000. The Company
measures segment profit as operating income (loss), which is defined as income
(loss) before interest expense and income taxes.  Information on segments and a
reconciliation to operating income (loss) are as follows (in thousands):


                                 Year Ended December 31, 2000
                              -----------------------------------
                               Hollywood
                                 Video     Reel.com       Total
                              ----------  -----------  ----------
Revenues                      $1,269,957  $    26,280  $1,296,237
Tape amortization (1)            176,459          110     176,569
Other depreciation and
  amortization (2)                77,102       23,492     100,594
Gross profit                     529,961      (18,974)    510,987
Operating loss                  (315,238)    (121,083)   (436,321)
Interest expense, net             57,861        4,266      62,127
Total assets                     665,114            -     665,114
Purchase of property and
  equipment, net                  76,121        1,518      77,639


                                 Year Ended December 31, 1999
                              -----------------------------------
                               Hollywood
                                 Video      Reel.com      Total
                              ----------  -----------  ----------
Revenues                      $1,054,879  $    41,962  $1,096,841
Tape amortization                107,127          450     107,577
Other depreciation and
  amortization                    64,078       51,187     115,265
Gross profit                     665,348       (2,387)    662,961
Operating income (loss)           96,025      (98,538)     (2,513)
Interest expense, net             41,042        4,435      45,477
Total assets                     983,887       69,404   1,053,291
Purchase of property and
  equipment, net                 108,804        3,454     112,258

(1) Excludes the $164.3 million charge for amortization policy change in
estimate (Note 5).

(2) Excludes the $74.3 million charge for the impairment of long-lived assets
(Note 8).


24.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

Selected quarterly financial data is as follows (in thousands, except per share
data):

                                                Quarter Ended
                                ------------------------------------------
                                   March      June    September   December
2001                            ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------
- -------------------------
 Total revenue                  $ 342,245  $ 325,072  $ 344,914  $ 367,272
 Gross profit                     197,804    197,239    211,605    228,378
 Income from
  Operations                       18,432     20,441     30,310     50,094
 Net income                         3,526      6,785     15,374     74,731
 Net income
  per share:
     Basic                           0.07       0.14       0.31       1.51
     Diluted                         0.07       0.13       0.28       1.35



                                                Quarter Ended
                                ------------------------------------------
                                   March      June    September   December
2000                            ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------
- -------------------------
 Total revenue                  $ 335,322  $ 322,636  $ 306,532  $ 331,747
 Gross profit                     196,754    174,023    192,083    (51,873)
 Income (loss) from
  operations                        2,735    (70,074)    18,439   (387,421)
 Net income (loss)                (12,163)   (63,044)       716   (455,549)
 Net income (loss)
  per share:
     Basic                          (0.26)     (1.37)      0.02      (9.85)
     Diluted                        (0.26)     (1.37)      0.02      (9.85)




                                                Quarter Ended
                                ------------------------------------------
                                   March      June    September   December
 1999                           ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------
 ------------------------
 Total revenue
  As previously reported        $ 266,529  $ 250,368  $ 266,319
  Adjustments (1)                    (404)      (905)      (652)
                                ---------  ---------  ---------
  As adjusted                   $ 266,125  $ 249,463  $ 265,667  $ 315,586
                                =========  =========  =========  =========
 Gross profit:
  As previously reported        $ 166,581  $ 155,382  $ 165,177
  Adjustments (1)                    (371)    (1,002)      (873)
                                ---------  ---------  ---------
  As adjusted                   $ 166,210  $ 154,380  $ 164,304  $ 178,067
                                =========  =========  =========  =========
 Income from operations
  As previously reported        $  13,390  $   5,707  $   1,016
  Adjustments (1)                     204     (1,106)    (1,375)
                                ---------  ---------  ---------
  As adjusted                   $  13,594  $   4,601  $    (359) $ (20,349)
                                =========  =========  =========  =========
 Net income (loss)
  As previously reported        $  (4,221) $  (8,329) $ (11,622)
  Adjustments (1)                     204     (1,106)    (1,375)
                                ---------  ---------  ---------
  As adjusted                   $  (4,017) $  (9,435) $ (12,997) $ (24,853)
                                =========  =========  =========  =========
 Net income (loss) per
  share:
    Basic
     As previously reported     $   (0.09) $   (0.18) $   (0.25)
     Adjustments (1)                 0.00      (0.03)     (0.03)
                                ---------  ---------  ---------
     As adjusted                $   (0.09) $   (0.21) $   (0.28) $   (0.54)
                                =========  =========  =========  =========
 Net income (loss) per
  share:
    Diluted
     As previously reported     $   (0.09) $   (0.18) $   (0.25)
     Adjustments (1)                 0.00      (0.03)     (0.03)
                                ---------  ---------  ---------
     As adjusted                $   (0.09) $   (0.21) $   (0.28) $   (0.54)
                                =========  =========  =========  =========


(1) During the fourth quarter of 1999, the Reel.com segment of the Company
recorded adjustments primarily related to advertising revenue and product
development costs.  The impact of these changes, including related income
tax effects, was to increase previously reported net income by $204,000 for
the quarter ended March 31, 1999 and to decrease net income by $1,106,000
and $1,375,000 for the quarters ended June 30, 1999 and September 30, 1999,
respectively.


25.   SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

On March 11, 2002, the Company completed a public offering of 8,050,000 shares
of its common stock, resulting in proceeds of $120.8 million before fees and
expenses, of which $114 million was applied to the repayment of borrowings
under the Company's prior revolving credit facility.

On March 18, 2002, the Company obtained new senior bank credit facilities from
a syndicate of lenders led by UBS Warburg LLC and applied a portion of initial
borrowings thereunder to repay all remaining borrowings under the Company's
prior revolving credit facility (which was then terminated). The new bank
credit facilities consists of a $150.0 million senior secured term facility
maturing in 2004 and a $25.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility
maturing in 2004. The maturity of the new facilities will automatically be
extended to 2006 if the Company's existing $250 million senior subordinated
notes are refinanced prior to February 2004. As a result of the early
retirement of the prior revolving credit facilities, the Company anticipates
recording an extraordinary charge of approximately $3.5 million in the first
quarter of 2002.

The credit agreement governing the facilities contains customary
representations, warranties, covenants (including financial covenants) and
events of default. Hollywood Management Company, and any future subsidiaries of
Hollywood Entertainment Corporation, are guarantors under the credit agreement.
The financial covenants, some of which may become more restrictive over time,
include a (1) maximum debt to adjusted EBITDA, (2) minimum interest coverage
test, and (3) minimum fixed charge coverage test (determined in each case on
the basis of the definitions and other provisions set forth in such credit
agreement). Currently, these financial covenants require the Company to
maintain (1) a ratio of debt to adjusted EBITDA of 3.0 to 1.0 or less, (2) a
ratio of adjusted EBITDA to interest expense of 3.0 to 1.0 or greater, and (3)
a ratio of adjusted EBITDA, plus interest expense, to fixed charges of at least
1.0 to 1.0.


26. CONSOLIDATING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Hollywood Entertainment Corporation (HEC) had only one wholly owned subsidiary
as of December 31, 2001, Hollywood Management Company (HMC). HMC is a guarantor
of certain indebtedness of HEC, including the new credit facilities and the
subordinated notes. Prior to June 2000, HEC had a wholly owned subsidiary named
Reel.com (Reel) that was merged with and into HEC in June 2000. The
consolidating condensed financial statements below present the results of
operations and financial position of the subsidiaries of the Company.


Consolidating Condensed Balance Sheet
December 31, 2001
(in thousands)


                           ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
                              HEC         HMC        Elimin-     Consol-
                                                     ations      idated
                           ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents  $    1,999  $   36,811  $       --  $   38,810
Accounts receivable            19,161     388,895    (379,000)     29,056
Merchandise inventories        61,585          --          --      61,585
Prepaid expenses and other
 current assets                 8,377       2,486          --      10,863
Total current assets           91,122     428,192    (379,000)    140,314
Rental inventory, net         191,016          --          --     191,016
Property & equipment, net     262,984       7,602          --     270,586
Goodwill, net                  64,934          --          --      64,934
Deferred income tax asset      38,396          --          --      38,396
Other assets, net              12,594       4,712      (4,008)     13,298
Total assets               $  661,046  $  440,506  $ (383,008) $  718,544
LIABILITIES & SHAREHOLDERS'
EQUITY (DEFICIT)
Current maturities of
 long-term obligations     $  111,914  $       --  $       --  $  111,914
Accounts payable              379,000     167,479    (379,000)    167,479
Accrued expenses               13,935      98,864          --     112,799
Accrued interest                   --      13,712          --      13,712
Income taxes payable               --       5,266          --       5,266
Total current liabilities     504,849     285,321    (379,000)    411,170
Long-term obligations, less
 current portion              402,088          --          --     402,088
Other liabilities              18,840          --          --      18,840
Total liabilities             925,777     285,321    (379,000)    832,098
Preferred stock                    --          --          --          --
Common stock                  373,848       4,008      (4,008)    373,848
Retained earnings
 (accumulated deficit)       (638,579)    151,177          --    (487,402)
Total shareholders' equity
 equity (deficit)            (264,731)    155,185      (4,008)   (113,554)
Total liabilities and
 shareholders equity
 (deficit)                 $  661,046  $  440,506  $ (383,008) $  718,544


Consolidating Condensed Balance Sheet
December 31, 2000
(in thousands)


                           ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
                              HEC          HMC      Elimin-     Consol-
                                                    ations      idated
                           ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents  $    1,915  $    1,353  $       --  $    3,268
Accounts receivable            19,205     379,665    (375,040)     23,830
Merchandise inventories        54,201          --          --      54,201
Prepaid expenses and other
 current assets                 8,169       1,930          --      10,099
Total current assets           83,490     382,948    (375,040)     91,398
Rental inventory, net         168,462          --          --     168,462
Property & equipment, net     311,812      11,854          --     323,666
Goodwill, net                  69,616          --          --      69,616
Other assets, net              11,453       4,527      (4,008)     11,972
Total assets               $  644,833  $  399,329  $ (379,048) $  665,114

LIABILITIES & SHAREHOLDERS'
EQUITY (DEFICIT)
Current maturities of
 long-term obligations     $  261,164  $       --  $       --  $  261,164
Accounts payable              375,040     200,358    (375,040)    200,358
Accrued expenses                6,049     108,584          --     114,633
Accrued interest                   --      11,817          --      11,817
Income taxes payable               --       4,844          --       4,844
Total current liabilities     642,253     325,603    (375,040)    592,816
Long-term obligations, less
 current portion              275,237          --          --     275,237
Other liabilities              19,438          --          --      19,438
Total liabilities             936,928     325,603    (375,040)    887,491
Preferred stock
Common stock                  365,441       4,008      (4,008)    365,441
Retained earnings
 (accumulated deficit)       (657,536)     69,718          --    (587,818)
Total shareholders' equity
 equity (deficit)            (292,095)     73,726      (4,008)   (222,377)
Total liabilities and
 shareholders equity
 (deficit)                 $  644,833  $  399,329  $ (379,048) $  665,114


Consolidating Condensed Statement of Operations
Twelve months ended December 31, 2001
(in thousands)

                          ---------  ---------    ---------  ---------
                             HEC        HMC        Elimin-    Consol-
                                                   ations     idated
                          ---------  ---------    ---------  ---------
Revenue                  $1,382,378  $ 154,075    $(156,950)$1,379,503
Cost of revenue             544,477         --           --    544,477
Gross profit                837,901    154,075     (156,950)   835,026

Operating costs & expenses:
 Operating and selling      610,274     11,069           --    621,343
 General & administrative   204,563     48,769     (156,950)    96,382
Restructuring charges:
 Closure of Internet         (3,256)        --           --     (3,256)
  business
 Store closures              (3,778)        --           --     (3,778)
Amortization of intangibles   4,683        375           --      5,058
Income (loss) from
  operations                 25,415     93,862           --    119,277

Interest income                  --     35,438      (35,021)       417
Interest expense            (91,567)         -       35,021    (56,546)
Income (loss) before
  income taxes              (66,152)   129,300           --     63,148
(Provision for) income
  taxes                      85,109    (47,841)          --     37,268
Net income (loss)        $   18,957  $  81,459    $      -- $  100,416


Consolidating Condensed Statement of Operations
Twelve months ended December 31, 2000
(in thousands)

                          ---------  ---------  --------  ---------  ---------
                             HEC        HMC       Reel      Elimin-   Consol-
                                                            ations    idated
                          ---------  ---------  --------  ---------  ---------

Revenue                  $1,272,832  $  134,253 $ 26,280  $(137,128)$1,296,237
Cost of revenue             739,996         --    45,254         --    785,250
Gross profit                532,836    134,253   (18,974)  (137,128)   510,987

Operating costs & expenses:
 Operating and selling      655,164     30,822    27,445         --    713,431
 General & administrative   164,904     77,327     5,139   (137,128)   110,242
Restructuring charges:
 Closure of Internet
  Business                       --         --    46,862         --     46,862
 Store closures              16,859         --        --         --     16,859
Amortization of intangibles  37,163         88    22,663         --     59,914
Income (loss) from
  Operations               (341,254)    26,016  (121,083)        --   (436,321)

Interest income                  --     26,689        --    (26,514)       175
Interest Expense            (84,550)        --    (4,266)    26,514    (62,302)
Income (loss) before
  Income taxes             (425,804)    52,705  (125,349)        --   (498,448)
(Provision for) income
  taxes                      (1,061)   (19,501)  (11,030)        --    (31,592)
Net income (loss)        $ (426,865)$   33,204 $(136,379)$       -- $ (530,040)
Consolidating Condensed Statement of Operations
Twelve months ended December 31, 1999
(in thousands)

                          ---------  ---------  --------  ---------  ---------
                             HEC        HMC       Reel     Elimin-    Consol-
                                                           ations     idated
                          ---------  ---------  --------  ---------  ---------
Revenue                  $1,057,754 $   61,333 $  41,962 $  (64,208)$1,096,841
Cost of revenue             389,531         --    44,349         --    433,880
Gross profit                668,223     61,333    (2,387)   (64,208)   662,961

Operating costs & expenses:
 Operating and selling      478,879      4,936    38,867         --    522,682
 General & administrative   110,510     32,310     7,261    (64,208)    85,873
Amortization of intangibles   6,896         --    50,023         --     56,919
Income (loss) from
  operations                 71,938     24,087   (98,538)        --     (2,513)

Interest income                  --     11,627        --    (11,413)       214
Interest expense            (52,669)        --    (4,435)    11,413    (45,691)
Income (loss) before income
taxes & cumulative effect
 adjustment                  19,269     35,714  (102,973)        --    (47,990)
(Provision for) benefit
 from income taxes           (9,054)   (13,214)   20,400         --     (1,868)
Income (loss) before cumulative
 effect of a change in
 accounting principle        10,215     22,500   (82,573)        --    (49,858)
Cumulative effect of a
 change in accounting
 principle (net of income
 tax benefit of $983)            --     (1,444)       --         --     (1,444)
Net income (loss)        $   10,215 $   21,056 $ (82,573) $      -- $  (51,302)


Consolidating Condensed Statement of Cash Flows
Twelve months ended December 31, 2001
(in thousands)

                           ----------  ----------   ----------
                               HEC        HMC        Consol-
                                                     idated
                           ----------  ----------   ----------
Operating activities:
 Net income                $   18,957  $   81,459   $  100,416
 Adjustments to reconcile
  net income to
  cash provided by
  operating activities:
 Depreciation &
  amortization                244,521       6,370      250,891
 Non-cash asset write downs
 Tax benefit from exercise
  of stock options                (61)         --          (61)
 Change in deferred rent         (598)         --         (598)
 Change in deferred income
  taxes                       (38,396)         --      (38,396)
Non-cash stock
  compensation                  7,371          --        7,371
Net change in operating
  assets & liabilities          4,238     (50,068)     (45,830)
Cash provided by operating
 activities                   236,032      37,761      273,793

Investing activities:
 Purchases of rental
  inventory, net             (202,790)         --     (202,790)
 Purchase of property &
  equipment, net               (7,063)     (1,739)      (8,802)
 Increase in intangibles
  & other assets               (4,793)       (564)      (5,357)
Cash used in investing
 activities                  (214,646)     (2,303)    (216,949)

Financing activities:
 Proceeds from the sale of
  common stock, net                --          --           --
 Issuance of long-term
  obligations                      --          --           --
 Repayments of long-term
  obligations                 (17,399)         --      (17,399)
 Proceeds from exercise
  of stock options              1,097          --        1,097
 Increase in revolving
  loan, net                    (5,000)         --       (5,000)
 Cash provided by financing
 activities                   (21,302)         --      (21,302)

Increase (decrease) in cash
 and cash equivalents              84      35,458       35,542
Cash and cash equivalents
 at beginning of year           1,915       1,353        3,268
Cash and cash equivalents
 at end of year            $    1,999  $   36,811   $   38,810


Consolidating Condensed Statement of Cash Flows
Twelve months ended December 31, 2000
(in thousands)

                           ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
                               HEC        HMC         Reel      Consol-
                                                                idated
                           ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Operating activities:
 Net income (loss)         $ (426,865) $   33,204  $ (136,379) $ (530,040)
 Adjustments to reconcile
  net income (loss) to
  cash provided by
  operating activities:
 Depreciation &
  amortization                489,488       5,349      23,602     518,439
 Non-cash asset write downs    30,548       3,838      25,509      59,895
 Tax benefit from exercise
  of stock options                 63          --          --          63
 Change in deferred rent        1,993          --          --       1,993
 Change in deferred income
  taxes                        25,805          --          --      25,805
 Net change in operating
  assets & liabilities        121,373     (36,928)     88,271     172,716
Cash provided by operating
 activities                   242,405       5,463       1,003     248,871

Investing activities:
 Purchases of rental
  inventory, net             (176,926)         --         173    (176,753)
 Purchase of property &
  equipment, net              (67,735)     (8,676)     (1,228)    (77,639)
 Increase in intangibles
  & other assets                 (823)       (607)         --      (1,430)
Cash used in investing
 activities                  (245,484)     (9,283)     (1,055)   (255,822)

Financing activities:
 Proceeds from the sale of
  common stock, net                --          --          --          --
 Issuance of long-term
  obligations                  12,511          --          --      12,511
 Repayments of long-term
  obligations                 (15,016)         --          --     (15,016)
 Proceeds from exercise
  of stock options                783          --          --         783
 Increase in revolving
  loan, net                     5,000          --          --       5,000
 Cash provided by financing
 activities                     3,278          --          --       3,278

Increase (decrease) in cash
 and cash equivalents             199      (3,820)        (52)     (3,673)
Cash and cash equivalents
 at beginning of year           1,716       5,173          52       6,941
Cash and cash equivalents
 at end of year             $   1,915  $    1,353  $       --  $    3,268


Consolidating Condensed Statement of Cash Flows
Twelve months ended December 31, 1999
(in thousands)

                           ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
                               HEC        HMC        Reel        Consol-
                                                                 idated
                           ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Operating activities:
 Net income (loss)         $   10,215  $   21,056  $  (82,573) $  (51,302)
 Adjustments to reconcile
  net income (loss) to
  cash provided by
  operating activities:
 Depreciation &
  amortization                169,402       3,739      51,637     224,778
 Non-cash asset write downs        --       1,444          --       1,444
 Tax benefit from exercise
  of stock options              3,848          --          --       3,848
 Change in deferred rent        3,565          --          --       3,565
 Change in deferred income
  taxes                        (1,545)         --          --      (1,545)
 Net change in operating
  assets & liabilities        (22,489)    (15,007)     33,859      (3,637)
Cash provided by operating
 activities                   162,996      11,232       2,923     177,151

Investing activities:
 Purchases of rental
  inventory, net             (185,638)         --        (239)   (185,877)
 Purchase of property &
  equipment, net             (100,573)     (8,231)     (3,454)   (112,258)
 Investment in businesses
  acquired                    (17,434)         --          --     (17,434)
 Increase in intangibles
  & other assets               (5,119)         --         350      (4,769)
Cash used in investing
 activities                  (308,764)     (8,231)     (3,343)   (320,338)

Financing activities:
 Proceeds from the sale of
  common stock, net                --          --          --          --
 Issuance of long-term
  obligations                  90,162          --          --      90,162
 Repayments of long-term
  obligations                  (8,401)         --          --      (8,401)
 Repurchase of common stock        --
 Proceeds from exercise
  of stock options              4,392          --          --       4,392
 Increase in revolving
  loan, net                    60,000          --          --      60,000
Cash provided by financing
 activities                   146,153          --          --     146,153

Increase (decrease) in cash
 and cash equivalents             385       3,001        (420)      2,966
Cash and cash equivalents
 at beginning of year           1,331       2,172         472       3,975
Cash and cash equivalents
 at end of year             $   1,716  $    5,173  $       52  $    6,941



                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, as of April 1,
2002.

                    Hollywood Entertainment Corporation


                       By: /S/ JAMES MARCUM
                       ---------------------------
                             James Marcum
                        Executive Vice President
                       and Chief Financial Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities indicated as of  April 1, 2002.

Signatures            Title


/S/ MARK J. WATTLES
- ----------------
Mark J. Wattles       Chairman of the Board of Directors,
                      and Chief Executive Officer
                      (Principal Executive Officer)

/S/ JAMES MARCUM
- ---------------
James Marcum          Executive Vice President
                      and Chief Financial Officer
                      (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

/S/ DONALD J. EKMAN
- ---------------
Donald J. Ekman       Director


/S/ WILLIAM P. ZEBE
- ---------------
William P. Zebe       Director


/S/ JAMES N. CUTLER JR.
- -------------------
James N. Cutler Jr.   Director


/S/ DOUGLAS GLENDENNING
- -------------------
Douglas Glendenning   Director



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>ex10-6.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.6 - CREDIT AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

HOLLYWOOD ENTERTAINMENT CORPORATION
____________________________________
CREDIT AGREEMENT
dated as of March 18, 2002
____________________________________
$175,000,000
Senior Secured Credit Facility
____________________________________
UBS WARBURG LLC,
as Lead Arranger,
UBS AG, STAMFORD BRANCH,
as Administrative Agent


TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
SECTION 1.	DEFINITIONS	1
1.1.	Defined Terms	1
1.2.	Rules of Construction	33
SECTION 2.	TRANCHE B TERM LOANS	34
2.1.	Tranche B Term Loans	34
2.2.	Repayment of Tranche B Term Loans	34
2.3.	Use of Proceeds	34
SECTION 3.	AMOUNT AND TERMS OF REVOLVING CREDIT COMMITMENTS	34
3.1.	Revolving Credit Commitments	34
3.2.	Commitment Fee	35
3.3.	Proceeds of Revolving Credit Loans	35
3.4.	Swing Line Commitment	35
3.5.	Issuance of Letters of Credit	37
3.6.	Participating Interests	37
3.7.	Procedure for Opening Letters of Credit	38
3.8.	Payments in Respect of Letters of Credit	38
3.9.	Letter of Credit Fees	39
3.10.	Letter of Credit Reserves	39
3.11.	Further Assurances	41
3.12.	Obligations Absolute	41
3.13.	Participations	41
SECTION 4.	GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO LOANS	42
4.1.	Procedure for Borrowing	42
4.2.	Conversion and Continuation Options	43
4.3.	Changes of Commitment Amounts	43
4.4.	Optional and Mandatory Prepayments; Repayments of
Tranche B Term Loans.	44
4.5.	Interest Rates and Payment Dates	48
4.6.	Computation of Interest and Fees	48
4.7.	Certain Fees	49
4.8.	Inability to Determine Interest Rate	49
4.9.	Pro Rata Treatment and Payments	49
4.10.	Illegality	52
4.11.	Requirements of Law	52
4.12.	Indemnity	56
4.13.	Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt	56
4.14.	Replacement of Lenders	58
SECTION 5.	REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES	58
5.1.	Financial Condition	58
5.2.	No Change	59
5.3.	Existence; Compliance with Law	59
5.4.	Power; Authorization	59
5.5.	Enforceable Obligations	60
5.6.	No Legal Bar	60
5.7.	No Material Litigation	60
5.8.	Investment Company Act	61
5.9.	Federal Regulation	61
5.10.	No Default	61
5.11.	Taxes	61
5.12.	Subsidiaries	62
5.13.	Ownership of Property; Liens	62
5.14.	ERISA	62
5.15.	Collateral Documents	63
5.16.	Copyrights, Patents, Permits, Trademarks and
Licenses	64
5.17.	Environmental Matters	64
5.18.	Accuracy and Completeness of Information	65
5.19.	Labor Matters	66
5.20.	Solvency	66
5.21.	Use of Proceeds	66
SECTION 6.	CONDITIONS PRECEDENT	67
6.1.	Conditions to Initial Loans and Letters of Credit	67
6.2.	Conditions to All Loans and Letters of Credit	69
SECTION 7.	AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS	70
7.1.	Financial Statements	70
7.2.	Compliance Certificates; Other Information	71
7.3.	Payment of Obligations	73
7.4.	Conduct of Business and Maintenance of Existence	73
7.5.	Maintenance of Property; Insurance	73
7.6.	Inspection of Property; Books and Records;
Discussions	74
7.7.	Notices	75
7.8.	Environmental Laws	76
7.9.	Additional Collateral and Guarantees	76
7.10.	Post-Closing Collateral Matters; Control
Agreements	78
7.11.	Compliance with Law	79
7.12.	Security Interests; Further Assurances.	79
7.13.	Unrestricted Subsidiary Financial Statements	79
SECTION 8.	NEGATIVE COVENANTS	79
8.1.	Indebtedness	80
8.2.	Limitation on Liens	82
8.3.	Limitation on Contingent Obligations	86
8.4.	Prohibition of Fundamental Changes	87
8.5.	Prohibition on Sale of Assets	87
8.6.	Limitation on Investments	90
8.7.	New Stores	92
8.8.	Interest Rate Agreements	92
8.9.	Leverage Ratio	92
8.10.	Interest Coverage	93
8.11.	Fixed Charge Coverage	94
8.12.	Limitation on Dividends	94
8.13.	Transactions with Affiliates	94
8.14.	Limitation on Changes in Fiscal Year	95
8.15.	Limitation on Lines of Business	95
8.16.	Amendments to Certain Documents	95
8.17.	Limitation on Prepayments and Amendments of
Certain Debt	95
8.18.	No Further Negative Pledge	96
8.19.	Maintenance of Corporate Separateness	96
8.20.	Clauses Restricting Subsidiary Distributions	96
SECTION 9.	EVENTS OF DEFAULT	97
SECTION 10.	THE AGENTS AND THE ISSUING LENDER	100
10.1.	Appointment	100
10.2.	Delegation of Duties	100
10.3.	Exculpatory Provisions	100
10.4.	Reliance by Agents	101
10.5.	Notice of Default	101
10.6.	Non-Reliance on Agents and Other Lenders	101
10.7.	Indemnification	102
10.8.	Agent in Its Individual Capacity	102
10.9.	Successor Administrative Agent	103
10.10.	Issuing Lender as Issuer of Letters of Credit	103
10.11.	Other Agents	103
SECTION 11.	MISCELLANEOUS	104
11.1.	Amendments and Waivers	104
11.2.	Notices	106
11.3.	No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies	107
11.4.	Survival of Representations and Warranties	107
11.5.	Indemnification; Payment of Expenses and Taxes	108
11.6.	Successors and Assigns; Participations and
Assignments	109
11.7.	Adjustments; Set-off	114
11.8.	Counterparts	116
11.9.	Governing Law; Third Party Rights	116
11.10.	Submission to Jurisdiction; Waivers	116
11.11.	Releases	117
11.12.	Interest	117
11.13.	Severability	118
11.14.	Integration	118
11.15.	Acknowledgments	118
SECTION 12.	COLLATERAL ACCOUNT; APPLICATION
OF COLLATERAL PROCEEDS	119
12.1.	Collateral Account	119
12.2.	Proceeds of Destruction, Taking and Collateral
Dispositions	120
12.3.	Application of Proceeds	121


SCHEDULES
Schedule I	List of Addresses for Notices; Lending Offices;
Commitment Amounts
Schedule II	Pricing Grid
Schedule 5.1(c)	Certain Financial Items
Schedule 5.3	Existence; Compliance with Law
Schedule 5.7	Litigation
Schedule 5.10	No Default
Schedule 5.11	Taxes
Schedule 5.12	Subsidiaries
Schedule 5.13	Fee Properties, Leased Properties and Mortgaged
Properties
Schedule 5.15(b)	UCC and Other Necessary Filings
Schedule 5.16	Patents; Trademarks and Copyrights
Schedule 5.17	Environmental Matters
Schedule 6.1(f)(i)	UCC, Judgment and Tax Lien Searches
Schedule 6.1(f)(ii)	Intellectual Property Licenses
Schedule 7.10	Post-Closing Collateral Matters
Schedule 8.1(a)	Existing Indebtedness
Schedule 8.2(h)	Existing Liens
Schedule 8.3(d)	Existing Contingent Obligations
Schedule 8.6	Existing Investments
Schedule 8.13	Existing Affiliate Transactions
EXHIBITS
Exhibit A	Form of Revolving Credit Note
Exhibit B	Form of Tranche B Term Note
Exhibit C	Form of Swing Line Note
Exhibit D	Form of Assignment and Acceptance
Exhibit E	Form of Collateral Agreement
Exhibit F	Form of L/C Participation Certificate
Exhibit G	Form of Mortgage
Exhibit H	Form of Non-Bank Certificate
Exhibit I	Form of Subsidiary Guarantee
Exhibit J	Form of Swing Line Loan Participation Certificate
Exhibit K	Form of Opinion of Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison LLP
Exhibit L	Form of Closing Certificate
Exhibit M	Form of Perfection Certificate
Exhibit N	Form of Compliance Certificate
Exhibit O	Form of Solvency Certificate
Exhibit P  	Form of Borrowing Request

CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as of March 18, 2002, among Hollywood
Entertainment Corporation, an Oregon corporation ("Borrower"), the several
lenders from time to time party hereto (the "Lenders") and UBS AG, Stamford
Branch, as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the "Ad-
ministrative Agent").
W I T N E S S E T H :
WHEREAS, Borrower will repay all amounts outstanding under the
Existing Credit Agreement and simultaneously therewith terminate such
agreement (the "Transactions");
WHEREAS, to finance a portion of the Transactions and to pay
fees and expenses in connection therewith, Borrower has requested that the
Lenders establish the credit facilities set forth herein;
NOW, THEREFORE, Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the
Lenders agree as follows:
SECTION 1.	DEFINITIONS
1.1.  Defined Terms.  As used in this Agreement, the terms de-
fined in the caption hereto shall have the meanings set forth therein, and
the following terms have the following meanings:
"Adjusted Consolidated EBITDA":  for any period
(a) Consolidated EBITDA for such period minus (b) all costs of acquisition
of Rental Items for Stores for such period, to the extent that such costs
of acquisition:
(A)  are accounted for as Capital Expenditures under GAAP,
(B)  do not represent new product introductions or platforms (in-
cluding catalog DVD),
(C)  relate to Rental Items that were acquired for a particular
Store after its opening, or
(D)  in the case of a Store acquired during such period, relate
to Rental Items that were aquired for such Store after it
commenced to operate as a Store
(i.e., excluding the cost of acquisition of such Store's initial inventory,
the intent of the parties being to adjust Consolidated EBITDA for the re-
curring costs of keeping a Store in stock, but not for the initial cost of
equipping a Store with inventory or any new product introduction or plat-
form), plus (c) the cost of product transferred from rental inventory to
previously viewed merchandise inventory and sold.
"Adjusted Current Assets":  in relation to any Person as at any
date, all amounts (other than cash and Cash Equivalents and amounts for de-
ferred taxes) which would be set forth opposite the caption "total current
assets" (or any like caption) on a balance sheet of such Person as at such
date, prepared in accordance with GAAP.
"Adjusted Current Liabilities":  in relation to any Person as
at any date, all amounts (other than amounts for income taxes payable and
accrued interest) which would be set forth opposite the caption "total cur-
rent liabilities" (or any like caption) on a balance sheet of such Person
as at such date, prepared in accordance with GAAP.
"Adjustment Date":  as defined in the definition of Applicable
Margin.
"Administrative Agent":  as defined in the Preamble hereto.
"Affiliate":  of any Person (a) any Person (other than a Sub-
sidiary) which, directly or indirectly, is in control of, is controlled by
or is under common control with such Person, or (b) any Person who is a di-
rector or officer (i) of such Person, (ii) of any Subsidiary of such Person
or (iii) of any Person described in clause (a) above.  For purposes of this
definition, control of a Person shall mean the power, direct or indirect,
(x) to vote 20% or more of the securities having ordinary voting power for
the election of directors of such Person, whether by ownership of securi-
ties, contract, proxy or otherwise, or (y) to direct or cause the direction
of the management and policies of such Person, whether by ownership of se-
curities, contract, proxy or otherwise.  Each Unrestricted Subsidiary shall
be deemed an Affiliate of Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
"Agents":  the collective reference to the Administrative
Agent, the Lead Arranger and any other agent for the Lenders designated in
connection with the syndication and in accordance with Section 10 by the
Administrative Agent with respect to the Credit Documents in a written no-
tice to Borrower.
"Agreement":  this Credit Agreement, as amended, supplemented
or modified from time to time.
"Alternate Base Rate":  for any day, a rate per annum equal to
the higher of (a) the Administrative Agent's Base Rate in effect on such
day and (b) the Federal Funds Rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1%.
For purposes hereof:  "Base Rate" shall mean the rate of interest per annum
publicly announced from time to time by the Administrative Agent as its
base rate in effect at its principal office in Stamford, Connecticut (the
Base Rate not being intended to be the lowest rate of interest charged by
the Administrative Agent in connection with extensions of credit to debt-
ors) (any change in such rate announced by the Administrative Agent shall
take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public
announcement of such change); and "Federal Funds Rate" shall mean, for any
day, the weighted average of the rates (rounded upwards, if necessary, to
the nearest 1/100th of 1%) on overnight federal funds transactions with
members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by federal funds brokers, as
published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York; provided that (a) if the day for which such rate is to be de-
termined is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall
be such rate for such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so
published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if such rate is not
so published for any day which is a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate
for such day shall be the average of the quotations for the day of such
transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three federal funds
brokers of recognized standing selected by it.  Any change in the Alternate
Base Rate due to a change in the Base Rate or the Federal Funds Rate shall
be effective as of the opening of business on the effective day of such
change in the Base Rate or the Federal Funds Rate, respectively.
"Alternate Base Rate Loans":  Loans at such time as they are
made and/or being maintained at a rate of interest based upon the Alternate
Base Rate.
"Applicable Margin":  for Tranche B Term Loans, Revolving
Credit Loans and Swing Line Loans of the Types set forth below, the rate
per annum set forth under the relevant column heading opposite such Loans:


                     Alternate
                     Base Rate
                     Loans

                                   Eurodollar
                                   Loans

Tranche B Term
Loans:

                     3.00%
                                   4.00%

Revolving Credit
Loans:

                     2.50 %
                                   3.50%

Swing Line Loans:

                    2.50%
                                  Not applicable


provided that, from and after the date on which Borrower shall have deliv-
ered financial statements for the first fiscal quarter ending at least
three months after the Closing Date, the Applicable Margin with respect to
Revolving Credit Loans and Swing Line Loans will be adjusted on each Ad-
justment Date (as defined below) to the applicable rate per annum set forth
in the pricing grid attached hereto as Schedule II based on the Leverage
Ratio as determined from the most recently delivered financial statements
delivered pursuant to subsection 7.1.  Changes in the Applicable Margin re-
sulting from changes in the Leverage Ratio shall become effective on the
date (the "Adjustment Date") on which such financial statements are deliv-
ered to the Lenders (but in any event not later than the 50th day after the
end of each of the first three quarterly periods of each fiscal year or the
95th day after the end of each fiscal year, as the case may be) and shall
remain in effect until the next change to be effected pursuant to this
definition; provided that (a) the Applicable Margin shall be initially the
rate per annum set forth under the relevant column heading above; (b) if
for any reason the financial statements required by subsection 7.1 are not
timely delivered to the Lenders, (i) during the period from the date upon
which such financial statements were required to be delivered until the
date upon which they actually are delivered, the Applicable Margin shall be
the Applicable Margin in effect immediately prior to the date such finan-
cial statements were due, and (ii) if such financial statements, when actu-
ally delivered, would have required an increase or decrease from the Appli-
cable Margin in effect immediately prior to the date such financial state-
ments were due, then in the case of an increase, Borrower shall promptly
following the delivery of such financial statements pay to the Lenders and
the Administrative Agent any additional amounts of interest or fees which
would have been payable on any previous Interest Payment Date had such
higher Applicable Margin been in effect from the date such financial state-
ments were required to be delivered and, in the case of a decrease, the Ad-
ministrative Agent shall credit to Borrower the amount of any interest or
fees which were paid by Borrower on any previous Interest Payment Date to
amounts payable by Borrower on the next succeeding Interest Payment Date
had such lower Applicable Margin been in effect from the date such finan-
cial statements were required to be delivered; (c) any change in the Appli-
cable Margin as a result of a change in the Leverage Ratio shall apply to
all Loans for each day during the period commencing on the effective date
of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective
date of the next such change in the Applicable Margin; and (d) if an Event
of Default exists on any Adjustment Date or other date upon which the Ap-
plicable Margin would otherwise be adjusted hereunder, the Applicable Mar-
gin shall in no event be reduced on such Adjustment Date or other date from
the Applicable Margin in effect immediately prior to such Adjustment Date
or other date until such Event of Default is cured or waived.
"Approved Fund":  with respect to any Lender that is a fund or
commingled investment vehicle that invests in loans, any other fund that
invests in loans and is managed or advised by the same investment advisor
as such Lender or by an Affiliate of such investment advisor.
"Asset Sale":  any sale, sale-leaseback, transfer, lease, con-
veyance or other disposition by Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries re-
stricted by subsection 8.5 of any of its property or assets, including the
Capital Stock of any Subsidiary (including Capital Stock of any Unre-
stricted Subsidiary), except (1) sales and dispositions permitted by sub-
section 8.5 (other than subsections 8.5(d), (e), (h) and (l)), and (2) any
such transaction or series of related transactions which, if an Asset Sale,
would not generate Net Proceeds in excess of $100,000 (or, when taken to-
gether with all other such transactions, in excess of $500,000 in any fis-
cal year).
"Assignee":  as defined in subsection 11.6(c).
"Assignment and Acceptance":  an assignment and acceptance sub-
stantially in the form of Exhibit D.
"Available Revolving Credit Commitment":  as to any Lender, at
a particular time, an amount equal to (a) the amount of such Lender's Re-
volving Credit Commitment at such time less (b) the sum of (i) the aggre-
gate unpaid principal amount at such time of all Revolving Credit Loans
made by such Lender pursuant to subsection 3.1, (ii) such Lender's Revolv-
ing Credit Commitment Percentage of the aggregate unpaid principal amount
at such time of all Swing Line Loans; provided that, for purposes of calcu-
lating the Revolving Credit Commitments pursuant to subsection 3.2, the
amount referred to in this clause (ii) shall be zero, (iii) such Lender's
L/C Participating Interest in the aggregate amount available to be drawn at
such time under all outstanding Letters of Credit issued by the Issuing
Lender and (iv) such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment Percentage of the
aggregate outstanding amount of L/C Obligations; collectively, as to all
the Lenders, the "Available Revolving Credit Commitments".
"Bank Account":  as defined in the Collateral Agreement.
"Bankruptcy Code":  Title I of the Bankruptcy Reform Act of
1978, as amended and codified at Title 11 of the United States Code.
"Board":  the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
together with any successor.
"Borrower":  as defined in the Preamble hereto.
"Borrowing Date":  any Business Day specified in a notice pur-
suant to (a) subsection 3.4 or 4.1 as a date on which Borrower requests the
Swing Line Lender or the Lenders to make Loans hereunder or (b) subsection
3.5 as a date on which Borrower requests the Issuing Lender to issue a Let-
ter of Credit hereunder.
"Business Day":  a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other
day on which commercial banks in New York City or Portland, Oregon are
authorized or required by law to close.
"Capital Assets":  all equipment, fixed assets and real prop-
erty or improvements of Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary of Borrower,
or replacements or substitutions therefor or additions thereto, that, in
accordance with GAAP, have been capitalized on the books of Borrower or
such Restricted Subsidiary.  Capital Assets shall also (a) include Rental
Items excluded from the calculation of Adjusted Consolidated EBITDA and (b)
exclude Rental Items included in the calculation of Adjusted Consolidated
EBITDA.
"Capital Expenditures":  for any period, all expenditures
(other than expenditures (i) made from the proceeds of an Asset Sale in ac-
cordance with subsection 8.5(h), (ii) made with the proceeds of eminent do-
main or condemnation proceedings, to the extent such proceeds are not in-
cluded in the determination of Adjusted Consolidated EBITDA for such fiscal
year or (iii) funded with the proceeds of the incurrence of Indebtedness or
the issuance of Capital Stock) made directly or indirectly by Borrower or
any Restricted Subsidiary of Borrower during such period for Capital Assets
(including all expenditures for maintenance and repairs which are required,
in accordance with GAAP, to be capitalized on the books of Borrower or such
Restricted Subsidiary).
"Capital Lease Obligations":  (a) any lease of property, real
or personal, the obligations under which are capitalized on a consolidated
balance sheet of Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries and (b) any other
such lease to the extent that the then present value of any rental commit-
ment thereunder should, in accordance with GAAP, be capitalized on a bal-
ance sheet of the lessee.
"Capital Stock":  any and all shares, interests, participations
or other equivalents (however designated) of capital stock of a corpora-
tion, any and all equivalent ownership interests in a Person (other than a
corporation) and any and all warrants or options to purchase any of the
foregoing.
"Cash Equivalents":  (a) marketable direct obligations issued
by, or unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States government or is-
sued by any agency thereof and backed by the full faith and credit of the
United States, in each case maturing within one year from the date of ac-
quisition; (b) certificates of deposit, time deposits, eurodollar time de-
posits or overnight bank deposits having maturities of six months or less
from the date of acquisition issued by any Lender or by any commercial bank
organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof having
combined capital and surplus of not less than $500,000,000; (c) commercial
paper of an issuer rated at least A-1 by S&P or P-1 by Moody's, or carrying
an equivalent rating by a nationally recognized rating agency, if both of
the two named rating agencies cease publishing ratings of commercial paper
issuers generally, and maturing within six months from the date of acquisi-
tion; (d) repurchase obligations of any Lender or of any commercial bank
satisfying the requirements of clause (b) of this definition, having a term
of not more than 30 days, with respect to securities issued or fully guar-
anteed or insured by the United States government; (e) securities with
maturities of one year or less from the date of acquisition issued or fully
guaranteed by any state, commonwealth or territory of the United States, by
any political subdivision or taxing authority of any such state, common-
wealth or territory or by any foreign government, the securities of which
state, commonwealth, territory, political subdivision, taxing authority or
foreign government (as the case may be) are rated at least A by S&P or
Moody's; (f) securities with maturities of six months or less from the date
of acquisition backed by standby letters of credit issued by any Lender or
any commercial bank satisfying the requirements of clause (b) of this defi-
nition; or (g) shares of money market mutual or similar funds which invest
exclusively in assets satisfying the requirements of clauses (a) through
(f) of this definition.
"CERCLA":  as defined in subsection 5.17(g).
"Change in Law":  with respect to any Lender, the adoption of,
or change in, any law, rule, regulation, policy, guideline or directive
(whether or not having the force of law) or any change in the interpreta-
tion or application thereof by any Governmental Authority having jurisdic-
tion over such Lender, in each case after the Closing Date.
"Change of Control":  shall be considered to have occurred if
 (i) if any Person (other than (a) any Person acting solely in
the capacity of an underwriter or (b) a Permitted Holder), whether
singly or in concert with one or more Persons, shall, directly or in-
directly, have acquired or acquire the power (x) to vote or direct
the voting of 35% or more, on a fully diluted basis, of the outstand-
ing voting power of the outstanding Capital Stock of Borrower or
(y) to elect or designate for election a majority of the board of di-
rectors of Borrower by voting power, contract or otherwise; or
 (ii) Continuing Directors shall cease to consist of at least a
majority of the board of directors of Borrower.
"Closing Date":  the date not later than March 31, 2002 on
which the Lenders make their initial Loans or the Issuing Lender issues the
initial Letter of Credit.
"Code":  the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from
time to time.
"Collateral":  all property and assets of the Credit Parties,
now owned or hereafter acquired, upon which a Lien is purported to be cre-
ated by any Security Document.
"Collateral Account":  as defined in subsection 12.1.
"Collateral Agreement":  the collateral agreement substantially
in the form of Exhibit E to be entered into by Borrower and its wholly
owned Subsidiaries (other than Foreign Subsidiaries and Unrestricted Sub-
sidiaries) from time to time party thereto in favor of the Administrative
Agent for the ratable benefit of the Lenders, as the same may be amended,
modified or supplemented from time to time.
"Commercial L/C":  a commercial documentary Letter of Credit
under which the Issuing Lender agrees to make payments in Dollars for the
account of Borrower, on behalf of Borrower or a Restricted Subsidiary, in
respect of obligations of Borrower or such Restricted Subsidiary in connec-
tion with the purchase of goods or services in the ordinary course of busi-
ness.
"Commitment":  as to any Lender at any time, such Lender's
Swing Line Commitment, Tranche B Term Loan Commitment and/or Revolving
Credit Commitment; collectively, as to all the Lenders from time to time,
the "Commitments".
"Commitment Fee Rate":  1/2 of 1% per annum calculated in ac-
cordance with subsection 4.6(a); provided, that from and after the Adjust-
ment Date, the Commitment Fee Rate will be determined pursuant to the pric-
ing grid attached hereto as Schedule II based upon the Leverage Ratio as
determined from the relevant financial statements delivered pursuant to
subsection 7.1.
"Commitment Percentage":  as to any Lender at any time, its
Tranche B Term Loan Commitment Percentage or Revolving Credit Commitment
Percentage, as the context may require.
"Commodity Account": as defined in the Collateral Agreement.
"Commodity Hedging Agreements":  any futures contract or other
similar agreement or arrangement designed to protect Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries against fluctuations in commodities prices and not for pur-
poses of speculation.
"Common Stock":  with respect to any Person, any and all
shares, interest or other participations in, and other equivalents (however
designated and whether voting or nonvoting) of such Person's common stock.
"Confidential Information Memorandum":  as defined in subsec-
tion 5.18.
"Consolidated EBITDA":  for any period, Consolidated Net Income
for such period, minus any reversal of any reserve to the extent included
in Consolidated Net Income, plus, without duplication and to the extent re-
flected as an expense, charge, loss or other deduction in the statement of
such Consolidated Net Income for such period (in each case other than to
the extent attributable to Unrestricted Subsidiaries), the sum of
(a) income tax expense, (b) Consolidated Interest Expense, amortization or
write-off of debt discount, debt issuance and net costs associated with In-
terest Rate Agreements to which Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary is a
party (including commitment fees and other periodic bank charges),
(c) depreciation and amortization expense, (d) franchise taxes, and (e) all
other non-cash items deducted for purposes of determining net income (other
than items that will require cash payments and for which an accrual or re-
serve is required under GAAP) and (f) any deduction as a result of Minority
Interests in Subsidiaries of Borrower.
"Consolidated Interest Expense":  for any period, cash interest
expense for or during such period on a consolidated basis for Borrower and
its Restricted Subsidiaries, determined in accordance with GAAP.
"Consolidated Net Income":  for any period, net income (or net
loss) of Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries, determined on a consoli-
dated basis in accordance with GAAP; provided that there shall be excluded
therefrom:
 (i) the net income (or loss) of any Person acquired which was
accrued prior to the date it became a Restricted Subsidiary of Bor-
rower or was merged or consolidated with Borrower or any Restricted
Subsidiary of Borrower;
 (ii) the net income (but not loss) of any Restricted Subsidiary
of Borrower (other than a Guarantor) to the extent that the declara-
tion of dividends or similar distributions by the Restricted Subsidi-
ary of that income is restricted by a contract, operation of law or
otherwise;
 (iii) the net income (or loss) of any other Person, other than a
Restricted Subsidiary of Borrower, except to the extent of cash divi-
dends or distributions paid to Borrower or to a wholly owned Re-
stricted Subsidiary of Borrower by such other Person;
 (iv) the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles;
 (v) income or loss attributable to discontinued operations
(including, without limitation, operations disposed of during such
period whether or not such operations were classified as discontin-
ued);
 (vi) in the case of a successor to Borrower by consolidation or
merger, or as a transferee of Borrower's assets, any earnings of the
successor prior to such consolidation, merger or transfer of assets;
 (vii) the impact of foreign currency and hedging translations
and transactions; and
 (viii) all other extraordinary gains, losses or charges.
"Contested Collateral Lien Conditions":  means, with respect to
any Permitted Lien of the type described in clauses (a), (b) and (d) of
subsection 8.2, the following conditions:
 (i) any proceeding instituted contesting such Lien shall con-
clusively operate to stay the sale or forfeiture of any portion of
the Collateral on account of such Lien; and
 (ii) such Lien shall in all respects be subject and subordinate
in priority to the Lien and security interest created and evidenced
by the Security Documents, except if and to the extent that the law
or regulation creating, permitting or authorizing such Lien provides
that such Lien is or must be superior to the Lien and security inter-
est created and evidenced by the Security Documents.
"Contingent Obligation":  as to any Person, any obligation of
such Person guaranteeing or in effect guaranteeing any Indebtedness ("pri-
mary obligations") of any other Person (the "primary obligor") in any man-
ner, whether directly or indirectly, including, without limitation, any ob-
ligation of such Person, whether or not contingent, (a) to purchase any
such primary obligation or any property constituting direct or indirect se-
curity therefor, (b) to advance or supply funds (i) for the purchase or
payment of any such primary obligation or (ii) to maintain working capital
or equity capital of the primary obligor or otherwise to maintain the net
worth or solvency of the primary obligor, (c) to purchase property, securi-
ties or services primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of any
such primary obligation of the ability of the primary obligor to make pay-
ment of such primary obligation or (d) otherwise to assure or hold harmless
the owner of any such primary obligation against loss in respect thereof;
provided, that the term Contingent Obligation shall not include endorse-
ments of instruments for deposit or collection in the ordinary course of
business.  The amount of any Contingent Obligation shall be deemed to be an
amount equal to the stated or determinable amount (based on the maximum
reasonably anticipated net liability in respect thereof as determined by
Borrower in good faith) of the primary obligation or portion thereof in re-
spect of which such Contingent Obligation is made or, if not stated or de-
terminable, the maximum reasonably anticipated net liability in respect
thereof (assuming such Person is required to perform thereunder) as deter-
mined by Borrower in good faith.
"Continuing Directors":  the directors of Borrower on the Clos-
ing Date, and each other director of Borrower, if, in each case, such other
director's nomination for election to the board of directors of Borrower is
approved or recommended by at least a majority of the then Continuing Di-
rectors or by a nominations committee thereof.
"Contractual Obligation":  as to any Person, any provision of
any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or un-
dertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of the
property or assets owned by it are bound.
"Control Agreement":  as defined in the Collateral Agreement.
"Credit Documents":  the collective reference to this Agree-
ment, the Notes, the Security Agreements, the Mortgages, the Guarantees and
all other documents delivered to any Agent and/or any Lender in connection
herewith or therewith and, solely for purposes of subsections 9(a) and (d)
and subsection 11.14, the Fee Letter.
"Credit Parties":  the collective reference to Borrower and the
direct and indirect wholly owned Restricted Subsidiaries of Borrower (other
than Foreign Subsidiaries).
"Default":  any of the events specified in Section 9, whether
or not any requirement for the giving of notice, the lapse of time, or
both, has been satisfied.
"Deposit Account": as defined in the Collateral Agreement.
"Destruction":  any and all damage to, or loss or destruction
of, or loss of title to, all or any portion of the Collateral.
"Dividend Payments":  dividends (in cash, property or obliga-
tions) on, or other payments or distributions on account of, or the setting
apart of money for a sinking or other analogous fund for, or the purchase,
redemption, retirement or other acquisition of, any Capital Stock of Bor-
rower or any of its Subsidiaries, but excluding dividends paid through the
issuance of additional shares of Capital Stock and any redemption or ex-
change of any Capital Stock of such Person through the issuance of Capital
Stock of such Person.
"Dollars" and "$":  lawful money of the United States.
"Employee Benefit Plan":  an employee benefit plan (as defined
in Section 3(3) of ERISA) that is maintained or contributed to by any ERISA
Entity or with respect to which Borrower or a Subsidiary could incur li-
ability.
"Environmental Laws":  any and all foreign, federal, state, lo-
cal or municipal laws, rules, orders, regulations, statutes, ordinances,
codes, decrees or requirements of any Governmental Authority or Require-
ments of Law (including, without limitation, common law) relating to pollu-
tion or protection of the environment (including, without limitation, ambi-
ent air, soil, subsurface strata, surface water, groundwater and natural
resources such as flora, fauna and wetlands) or public or employee health,
including, without limitation, release or threatened release, manufacture,
storage, treatment, handling, transport or disposal of Hazardous Materials,
as now or may at any time hereafter be in effect.
"Environmental Permits":  any and all permits, licenses, regis-
trations, notifications, exemptions and any other authorizations required
under any Environmental Law.
"ERISA":  the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974,
as amended from time to time.
"ERISA Entity":  any member of an ERISA Group.
"ERISA Event":  (a) any "reportable event," as defined in Sec-
tion 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder, with respect to a
Pension Plan (other than an event for which the 30-day notice period is
waived); (b) the existence with respect to any Pension Plan of an "accumu-
lated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Sec-
tion 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived, the failure to make by its due
date a required installment under Section 412(m) of the Code with respect
to any Pension Plan or the failure to make any required contribution to a
Multiemployer Plan; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(d) of the Code
or Section 303(d) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum
funding standard with respect to any Pension Plan; (d) the incurrence by
any ERISA Entity of any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to
the termination of any Pension Plan; (e) the receipt by any ERISA Entity
from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to an inten-
tion to terminate any Pension Plan or to appoint a trustee to administer
any Pension Plan, or the occurrence of any event or condition which could
reasonably be expected to constitute grounds under ERISA for the termina-
tion of or the appointment of a trustee to administer any Pension Plan;
(f) the incurrence by any ERISA Entity of any liability with respect to the
withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Pension Plan or Multiemployer
Plan; (g) the receipt by any ERISA Entity of any notice, or the receipt by
any Multiemployer Plan from any ERISA Entity of any notice, concerning the
imposition of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer
Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the
meaning of Title IV of ERISA; (h) the making of any amendment to any Pen-
sion Plan which could result in the imposition of a lien or the posting of
a bond or other security; or (i) the occurrence of a nonexempt prohibited
transaction (within the meaning of Section 4975 of the Code or Section 406
of ERISA) which could result in liability to Borrower or any of the Sub-
sidiaries.
"ERISA Group":  Borrower, any Subsidiary and all members of a
controlled group of corporations and all trades or businesses (whether or
not incorporated) under common control which, together with Borrower or any
Subsidiary, are treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
"Eurocurrency Reserve Requirements":  for any day as applied to
a Eurodollar Loan, the aggregate (without duplication) of the rates (ex-
pressed as a decimal fraction) of reserve requirements in effect on such
day (including, without limitation, basic, supplemental, marginal and emer-
gency reserves under any regulations of the Board or other Governmental
Authority having jurisdiction with respect thereto) dealing with reserve
requirements prescribed for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as
"Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of such Board) maintained by a
member bank of the Federal Reserve System.
"Eurodollar Base Rate":  with respect to each day during each
Interest Period pertaining to a Eurodollar Loan, the rate per annum deter-
mined on the basis of the rate for deposits in Dollars for a period equal
to such Interest Period commencing on the first day of such Interest Period
appearing on Page 3750 of the Telerate System Incorporated Service screen
as of 11:00 A.M., London time, two Business Days prior to the beginning of
such Interest Period.  In the event that such rate does not appear on Page
3750 of the Telerate System Incorporated Service screen (or such other page
as may replace such page on such service for the purpose of displaying the
rates at which dollar deposits are offered by leading banks in the London
interbank deposit market), the "Eurodollar Base Rate" for purposes of this
definition shall be determined by reference to such other comparable pub-
licly available service for displaying eurodollar rates as may be selected
by the Administrative Agent or, in the absence of such availability, by
reference to the rate at which the Administrative Agent is offered Dollar
deposits at or about 11:00 A.M., London time, two Business Days prior to
the beginning of such Interest Period in the interbank eurodollar market
where its eurodollar and foreign currency and exchange operations are then
being conducted for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period for
the number of days comprised therein.
"Eurodollar Lending Office":  as to any Lender, the office of
such Lender which shall be making or maintaining Eurodollar Loans.
"Eurodollar Loans":  Loans at such time as they are made and/or
being maintained at a rate of interest based upon a Eurodollar Rate.
"Eurodollar Rate":  with respect to each day during each Inter-
est Period pertaining to a Eurodollar Loan, a rate per annum determined for
such day in accordance with the following formula (rounded upward to the
nearest 1/100th of 1%):
Eurodollar Base Rate
1.00 - Eurocurrency Reserve Require-
ments

"Event of Default":  any of the events specified in Section 9;
provided that any requirement for the giving of notice, the lapse of time,
or both, has been satisfied.
"Excess Cash Flow":  for any fiscal year of Borrower, commenc-
ing with the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2002, the excess of (a) the
sum of (i) Adjusted Consolidated EBITDA for such fiscal year plus (ii) any
negative change in Working Capital Deficit for such fiscal year over
(b) the sum, without duplication, of (i) the aggregate amount actually paid
by Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries in cash during such fiscal year
on account of Capital Expenditures or acquisitions, (ii) the aggregate
amount of payments of principal in respect of any Indebtedness during such
fiscal year (other than (A) pursuant to subsection 4.4(b), (B) payments of
principal in respect of any revolving credit facility to the extent that
there is not an equivalent reduction in the commitments in respect of such
facility and (C) any repayment of Indebtedness to the extent made with the
proceeds of the incurrence of Indebtedness or the issuance of Capital Stock
or the proceeds of any Asset Sale), (iii) cash interest expense (including
fees paid in connection with letters of credit and surety bonds and commit-
ment fees and other periodic bank charges) of Borrower and its Restricted
Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, (iv) the amount of taxes actually paid
in cash by Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such fiscal year
either during such fiscal year or within a normal payment period thereof,
(v) to the extent included in Adjusted Consolidated EBITDA for such fiscal
year, the net cash cost of Interest Rate Agreements and franchise taxes,
(vi) the amount of cash actually paid by Borrower and its Restricted Sub-
sidiaries during such fiscal year in connection with the matters described
in clause (viii) of the definition of "Consolidated Net Income," (vii) any
positive change in Working Capital Deficit for such fiscal year and (viii)
$10,000,000.
"Excluded Taxes":  in the case of each Lender and Administra-
tive Agent, taxes (including franchise taxes) imposed on its overall net
income by (i) the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Lender or Ad-
ministrative Agent is incorporated or organized or (ii) the jurisdiction in
which Administrative Agent's or such Lender's principal executive office or
such Lender is located.
"Existing Credit Agreement":  the revolving credit agreement,
dated as of August 4, 2000, as amended, among Borrower, as borrower, and
certain financial institutions, as lenders.
"Existing Indenture":  the indenture relating to the Existing
Notes, by and between Borrower, as issuer, and U.S. Trust Company of Cali-
fornia, N.A., as trustee, dated as of August 13, 1997, as amended and sup-
plemented and as in effect on the Closing Date.
"Existing Notes":  means the $250,000,000 in aggregate princi-
pal amount of the 10-5/8% senior subordinated notes due August 15, 2004 is-
sued by Borrower.
"Facility":  each of (a) the extensions of credit made
hereunder in the form of Tranche B Term Loans (the "Term B Loan Facility")
and (b) the Revolving Credit Commitments and the extensions of credit made
thereunder (the "Revolving Credit Facility"), and "Facilities" means the
collective reference to the Term B Loan Facility and the Revolving Credit
Facility.
"Fee Letter":  the letter between Borrower, UBS AG, Stamford
Branch and UBS Warburg LLC dated as of December 3, 2001 relating to the
payment of certain fees in respect of the Facilities.
"Fee Property":  as defined in subsection 5.13.
"Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio":  on the last day of any fiscal
quarter of Borrower, the ratio of (x) Adjusted Consolidated EBITDA, plus
aggregate rent expense for Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries, in
each case for the period of the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on
such day to (y) Fixed Charges for the period of the four consecutive fiscal
quarters ending on such day, in the cases of each of (x) and (y) on a con-
solidated basis for Borrower and the Restricted Subsidiaries, which ratio
shall be calculated on a pro forma basis as if the Transactions had oc-
curred on the first day of such period with respect to any such measurement
prior to the first anniversary of the Closing Date.
"Fixed Charges":  shall mean, for any period, the sum of (i)
Consolidated Interest Expense for such period, (ii) the sum of all sched-
uled principal payments on any Indebtedness of Borrower and the Restricted
Subsidiaries payable during such period (including without limitation the
principal component of Capital Lease Obligations paid during that period),
(iii) all dividends paid or payable (to a Person other than Borrower or a
Qualified Subsidiary) in cash on Preferred Stock of Borrower or its Re-
stricted Subsidiaries during such period, (iv) all cash income tax expense
actually paid to any Governmental Authority for such period by Borrower and
the Restricted Subsidiaries, (v) all Capital Expenditures made during such
period and (vi) aggregate rent expense for Borrower and the Restricted Sub-
sidiaries during such period.  For purposes of calculating Fixed Charges,
Indebtedness shall only include items within the meaning of clauses (a),
(b), (c), (d), (e), (g), (h) (replacing the reference to clauses (a)
through (g) in such clause (h) to clauses (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (g))
and (i) (replacing the reference to clauses (a) through (h) in such clause
(i) to clauses (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g) and (h)) of the definition of
Indebtedness (for the avoidance of doubt, the calculation of Consolidated
Interest Expense for the purposes of determining Fixed Charges shall not be
affected by the provisions of this sentence).
"Foreign Plan":  any employee benefit plan, program, policy,
arrangement or agreement maintained or contributed to by Borrower or any of
its Subsidiaries with respect to employees employed outside the United
States.
"Foreign Restricted Subsidiary":  each Foreign Subsidiary that
is a Restricted Subsidiary.
"Foreign Subsidiary":  each Subsidiary of Borrower which is not
organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof or the
District of Columbia.
"Governmental Authority":  any nation or government, any state
or other political subdivision thereof or any entity exercising executive,
legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of or per-
taining to government.
"Granting Lender":  as defined in subsection 11.6(i).
"Guarantees":  the collective reference to the Subsidiary Guar-
antee and any guarantee which may from time to time be executed and deliv-
ered by a Subsidiary pursuant to subsection 7.9.
"Hazardous Materials":  any pollutants, contaminants, chemi-
cals, materials,  constituents, wastes or substances that may give rise to
liability, or are subject to regulation, under any Environmental Law, in-
cluding, without limitation, asbestos, petroleum, any petroleum products
(including gasoline, crude oil or any fraction thereof), polychlorinated
biphenyls and urea-formaldehyde insulation.
"Highest Lawful Rate":  as defined in subsection 11.12.
"Indebtedness":  of any Person at any date, without duplica-
tion, (a) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obli-
gations of such Person for the deferred purchase price of property or serv-
ices (other than accounts payable, including accounts payable arising from
the participation by such Person in any floorplan financing program (or, to
the extent they are on the same terms (including as to due date and aggre-
gate liability) as such accounts payable, notes in exchange therefor), ac-
crued revenue sharing, accrued expenses and other trade payables incurred
in the ordinary course of such Person's business, in each case not overdue
by more than 120 days or, if overdue for more than 120 days, as to which
the vendor has consented (whether by written agreement or implied consent)
as to the extension of terms or a dispute exists and adequate reserves in
conformity with GAAP have been established), (c) all obligations of such
Person evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or other similar instruments
(other than notes made in exchange for accounts payable that are not over-
due for more than 120 days, to the extent such notes are on the same terms
(including as to due date and aggregate liability) as such accounts pay-
able), (d) all indebtedness created or arising under any conditional sale
or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired by
such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender
under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or
sale of such property), (e) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person
and the obligations (including contingent obligations) of such Person under
and in respect of synthetic lease transactions under which such Person or
any Affiliate of such Person is the lessee, (f) all obligations of such
Person, contingent or otherwise, as an account party or applicant under or
in respect of acceptances, letters of credit (whether drawn or undrawn),
surety bonds or similar arrangements, (g) the liquidation value of all re-
deemable preferred Capital Stock of such Person, (h) all guarantee Obliga-
tions of such Person in respect of obligations of the kind referred to in
clauses (a) through (g) above, (i) all obligations of the kind referred to
in clauses (a) through (h) above secured by (or for which the holder of
such obligation has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be se-
cured by) any Lien on property (including accounts and contract rights)
owned by such Person, whether or not such Person has assumed or become li-
able for the payment of such obligation, but only to the extent of the
value of such property and (j) for the purposes of subsection 8.1 and sub-
section 9(e) only, all obligations of such Person in respect of Commodity
Hedging Agreements.  The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the In-
debtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such
Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor
as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship
with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness ex-
pressly provide that such Person is not liable therefor.
"Intellectual Property":  the collective reference to all
rights, priorities and privileges relating to intellectual property,
whether arising under United States, multinational or foreign laws or oth-
erwise, including copyrights, copyright licenses, patents, patent licenses,
trademarks, trademark licenses, technology, know-how and processes, and all
rights to sue at law or in equity for any infringement or other impairment
thereof, including the right to receive all proceeds and damages therefrom.
"Interest Coverage Ratio":  on the last day of any fiscal quar-
ter of Borrower, the ratio of (a) Adjusted Consolidated EBITDA for the pe-
riod of the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on such day to
(b) Consolidated Interest Expense for the period of the four consecutive
fiscal quarters ending on such day, in each case on a consolidated basis
for Borrower and the Restricted Subsidiaries, which such ratio shall be
calculated on a pro forma basis as if the Transactions had occurred on the
first day of such period with respect to any such measurement prior to the
first anniversary of the Closing Date.
"Interest Payment Date":  (a) as to Alternate Base Rate Loans,
the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing on the
first such day to occur after any Alternate Base Rate Loans are made or any
Eurodollar Loans are converted to Alternate Base Rate Loans, (b) as to any
Eurodollar Loan in respect of which Borrower has selected an Interest Pe-
riod of one, two or three months, the last day of such Interest Period and
(c) as to any Eurodollar Loan in respect of which Borrower has selected a
longer Interest Period than the periods described in clause (b), the last
day of each three calendar month interval during such Interest Period and,
in addition, the last day of such Interest Period.
"Interest Period":  with respect to any Eurodollar Loan:
(a) initially, the period commencing on, as the case may be,
the Borrowing Date or conversion date with respect to such Eurodollar
Loan and ending (x) until the earlier of (1) the completion of the
syndication of the Term B Loan Facility as determined by the Lead Ar-
ranger and (2) 30 days after the Closing Date, seven days thereafter
and (y) in all other cases, one, two, three or six months thereafter
(or, with the consent of each applicable Lender, nine or twelve
months thereafter) as selected by Borrower in its notice of borrowing
as provided in subsection 4.1 or its notice of conversion as provided
in subsection 4.2; and
(b) thereafter, each period commencing on the last day of the
next preceding Interest Period applicable to such Eurodollar Loan and
ending (x) until the earlier of (1) the completion of the syndication
of the Term B Loan Facility as determined by the Lead Arranger and
(2) 30 days after the Closing Date, seven days thereafter and (y) in
all other cases, one, two, three or six months thereafter (or, with
the consent of each applicable Lender, nine or twelve months thereaf-
ter) as selected by Borrower by irrevocable notice to the Administra-
tive Agent not less than three Business Days prior to the last day of
the then current Interest Period with respect to such Eurodollar
Loan; provided, that if Borrower fails to deliver such notice by such
time, such period shall end one month thereafter;
provided that the foregoing provisions relating to Interest Periods are
subject to the following:
(A) if any Interest Period would otherwise end on a day which
is not a Business Day, that Interest Period shall be extended to the
next succeeding Business Day, unless the result of such extension
would be to carry such Interest Period into another calendar month,
in which event such Interest Period shall end on the immediately pre-
ceding Business Day;
(B) any Interest Period that would otherwise extend beyond
(i) in the case of an Interest Period for a Tranche B Term Loan, the
final Tranche B Installment Payment Date shall end on such Tranche B
Installment Payment Date or, if such Tranche B Installment Payment
Date shall not be a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day;
and (ii) in the case of any Interest Period for a Revolving Credit
Loan, the Revolving Credit Termination Date shall end on the Revolv-
ing Credit Termination Date, or if the Revolving Credit Termination
Date shall not be a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day;
and
(C) any Interest Period that begins on the last day of a cal-
endar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corre-
sponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Pe-
riod) shall end on the last Business Day of a calendar month.
"Interest Rate Agreement":  any interest rate swap agreement,
interest rate cap agreement, interest rate collar agreement or other simi-
lar agreement or arrangement.
"Investment":  for any Person:  (a) the acquisition (whether
for cash, property, services or securities or otherwise) of equity inter-
ests, bonds, notes, debentures or other securities of any other Person;
(b) the making of any deposit with, or advance, loan or other extension of
credit to, any other Person (including the purchase of property from an-
other Person subject to an understanding or agreement, contingent or other-
wise, to resell such property to such Person); (c) any capital contribution
to (by means of any transfer of cash or other property to others or any
payment for property or services for the account or use of others) any
other Person; and (d) the entering into, or direct or indirect incurrence,
of any Contingent Obligation with respect to Indebtedness or other liabil-
ity of any other Person.
"Investment Election Notice":  as defined in subsection
12.2(a).
"Issuing Lender":  collectively, UBS AG, Stamford Branch and
any of its Affiliates, as issuer of the Letters of Credit.
"Law":  any statute, law, regulation, ordinance, rule, treaty,
judgment, order, decree, permit, concession, franchise, license, agreement
or other governmental restriction of the United States or Canada or any
state, province or political subdivision thereof or of any foreign country
or any department, province or other political subdivision thereof.
"L/C Application":  as defined in subsection 3.5(a).
"L/C Obligations":  the obligations of Borrower to reimburse
the Issuing Lender for any payments made by the Issuing Lender under any
Letter of Credit that have not been reimbursed by Borrower pursuant to sub-
section 3.8(a).
"L/C Participating Interest":  an undivided participating in-
terest in the face amount of each issued and outstanding Letter of Credit
and the L/C Application relating thereto.
"L/C Participation Certificate":  a certificate in substan-
tially the form of Exhibit F.
"L/C Sub-Account":  as defined in subsection 12.1(d).
"Lead Arranger":  UBS Warburg LLC.
"Leased Property":  as defined in subsection 5.13.
"Lenders":  as defined in the Preamble hereto.
"Letters of Credit":  the collective reference to the Commer-
cial L/Cs and the Standby L/Cs; individually, a "Letter of Credit".
"Leverage Ratio":  as of any date, the ratio of the aggregate
stated balance sheet amount of all Indebtedness of Borrower and its Re-
stricted Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with
GAAP at such date to Adjusted Consolidated EBITDA for the period of the im-
mediately preceding four consecutive fiscal quarters ending at such date.
For purposes of calculating the Leverage Ratio (i) Adjusted Consolidated
EBITDA shall be calculated on a pro forma basis (giving effect to post-
acquisition cost savings in a manner reasonably agreed to by Borrower and
the Administrative Agent, but in any case such manner shall be no less fa-
vorable to Borrower and its Subsidiaries than analogous SEC regulations
governing the preparation of pro forma financial statements) adjusted from
time to time to give effect to any acquisition permitted by subsection
8.6(g) consummated in the relevant period as if such acquisition occurred
on the first day of such period, (ii) Indebtedness shall only include items
within the meaning of clauses (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g), (h) (replacing
the reference to clauses (a) through (g) in such clause (h) to clauses (a),
(b), (c), (d), (e) and (g)) and (i) (replacing the reference to clauses (a)
through (h) in such clause (i) to clauses (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g) and
(h)) of the definition of Indebtedness and (iii) for the purposes of sub-
section 8.7 only, Indebtedness shall only include Indebtedness described in
immediately preceding clause (ii) that is secured by a Lien.
"Lien":  any mortgage, deed of trust, pledge, assignment, de-
posit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), claim, hypothe-
cation, charge or preference, priority or other security agreement or pref-
erential arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever (including, without
limitation, any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any
financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the
foregoing, and the filing of any financing statement under the UCC or com-
parable law of any jurisdiction in respect of any of the foregoing).
"Loans":  the collective reference to the Swing Line Loans, the
Tranche B Term Loans, and the Revolving Credit Loans; individually, a
"Loan".
"Majority Facility Lenders":  with respect to each Facility,
the holders of in excess of 50% of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of
the Tranche B Term Loans or the Revolving Credit Exposure, as the case may
be, outstanding under such Facility (or, in the case of the Revolving
Credit Facility, prior to any termination of the Revolving Credit Commit-
ments, the holders of in excess of 50% of the aggregate amount of Revolving
Credit Commitments).
"Margin Stock" shall mean margin stock within the meaning of
Regulations U and X.
"Material Adverse Effect":  a material adverse effect on
(i) the business, assets, results of operations, properties or condition
(financial or otherwise) of Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a
whole, (ii) the ability of Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries
to perform its respective obligations under any Credit Document, (iii) the
rights and remedies of the Lenders under any Credit Document, or (iv) the
value of the Collateral, taken as a whole, or the validity, enforceability,
perfection or priority of the Liens, taken as a whole, granted to the Ad-
ministrative Agent (for its benefit and for the benefit of the other Se-
cured Parties) on the Collateral pursuant to the Security Documents.
"Material Subsidiary":  any Subsidiary that would be a "sig-
nificant subsidiary" of Borrower within the meaning of Rule 1-02(w) of
Regulation S-X under the Securities Act of 1933 (replacing references to 10
per cent therein with 5 per cent), or any group of Subsidiaries that to-
gether would constitute a Material Subsidiary.
"Maturity Date":  (a) if the Notes Refinancing is consummated
on or before the Notes Refinancing Date, June 30, 2006, and (b) in all
other cases, March 31, 2004, or, in each case, if such date is not a Busi-
ness Day, the immediately preceding Business Day.

"Maximum Number": for each of the following years, the number
set forth opposite such year:

Year
Number


2002
50
2003
200
2004
225
2005
250
2006
125

; provided, that if in any year the Maximum Number (as the Maximum Number
may be increased pursuant to this proviso) exceeds the number of Stores ac-
tually opened or acquired in such year, then the Maximum Number for the
next succeeding year shall be increased by an amount equal to such excess.
"Minority Interest":  an investment in any Person that is not a
Subsidiary (including any joint venture).
"Mortgaged Properties":  any Real Property covered by a Mort-
gage delivered pursuant to subsection 7.9(d).
"Mortgages":  each of the mortgages and deeds of trust in re-
spect of real property made by any Credit Party in favor of, or for the
benefit of, the Administrative Agent for its benefit and for the benefit of
the other Secured Parties, substantially in the form of Exhibit G (with
such changes thereto as shall be advisable under the law of the jurisdic-
tion in which such mortgage or deed of trust is to be recorded and other-
wise as shall be acceptable to the Administrative Agent), as the same may
be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
"Multiemployer Plan":  a multiemployer plan within the meaning
of Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA (i) to which any ERISA Entity is then making
or accruing an obligation to make contributions (ii) to which any ERISA En-
tity has within the preceding five plan years made contributions, including
any Person which ceased to be an ERISA Entity during such five year period,
or (iii) with respect to which Borrower or a Subsidiary could incur liabil-
ity.
"Net Proceeds":  the aggregate cash proceeds received (subject
to the provisions of subsections 8.5(d), (h) and (l), to the extent appli-
cable) by Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of:
(a) (i) any issuance or borrowing of any debt securities (in-
cluding debt securities convertible into, or exchangeable or exercis-
able for, Capital Stock) or loans by Borrower or any of its Re-
stricted Subsidiaries other than debt or loans permitted to be in-
curred or borrowed pursuant to subsection 8.1 (other than subsection
8.1(k) hereof) or (ii) any issuance by Borrower or any of its Re-
stricted Subsidiaries of Capital Stock;
(b) any Asset Sale or any insurance recoveries in respect of
any Destruction or any proceeds or awards on account of any Taking;
provided that (i) so long as no Event of Default then exists, the net
proceeds of any such insurance recoveries in respect of any Destruc-
tion or net award of any such Taking shall constitute Net Proceeds
only to the extent such recoveries are not reinvested in properties
or assets owned (or to be owned) by Borrower and its Restricted Sub-
sidiaries within twelve months from the date of such sale, and
(ii) if the property subject to such Destruction or Taking consti-
tuted Collateral under the Security Documents, then any property pur-
chased with the net proceeds thereof or net awards shall be mortgaged
or pledged, as the case may be, to the Administrative Agent, for its
benefit and for the benefit of the other Secured Parties in accor-
dance with subsection 7.9;
(c) any cash received in respect of substantially like-kind
exchanges of property to the extent provided in the proviso to sub-
section 8.5(e); and
(d) any cash payments received in respect of promissory notes
delivered to Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in re-
spect of an Asset Sale;
in each case net of (without duplication) (w) to the extent such Indebted-
ness and such Lien are permitted hereunder, the amount required to repay
any Indebtedness (other than the Loans) secured by a Lien on any assets of
Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (that are collateral for any such debt
securities or loans) that are sold or otherwise disposed of in connection
with such Asset Sale or subject to the applicable Destruction or Taking,
(x) the reasonable expenses (including legal fees and brokers' and under-
writers' commissions, lenders fees or credit enhancement fees, in any case,
paid to third parties or, to the extent permitted hereby, Affiliates) in-
curred in effecting the applicable event or events described in clauses (a)
through (d) above, (y) any taxes (including any withholding) reasonably at-
tributable to the applicable event or events described in clauses (a)
through (d) above and reasonably estimated by Borrower or its Restricted
Subsidiaries to be actually payable and (z) in the case of any receipt of
proceeds by a Restricted Subsidiary, any amount required to be distributed
to the holders of any minority equity interest in such Subsidiary (or in
any other Subsidiary which directly or indirectly holds equity interests in
such Subsidiary).
"Non-Bank Certificate":  a certificate substantially in the
form of Exhibit H.
"Non-Funding Lender":  as defined in subsection 4.9(c).
"Notes":  the collective reference to the Swing Line Note, the
Revolving Credit Notes and the Tranche B Term Loan Notes; each of the
Notes, a "Note".
"Notes Refinancing":  the Refinancing of the entire principal
amount of the Existing Notes with the proceeds of the issuance of either
(a) Indebtedness solely comprised of Subordinated Indebtedness of Borrower,
(b) Capital Stock of Borrower or (c) a combination of clauses (a) and (b);
provided, that in each case, such proceeds (net of customary underwriting
discounts and commissions) are contributed directly to Borrower (in the
case of an issuance done by a Person other than Borrower).
"Notes Refinancing Date":  February 29, 2004.
"Obligations":  as defined in the Collateral Agreement.
"Officers' Certificate":  as applied to any corporation, a cer-
tificate executed on behalf of such corporation by its Chief Executive Of-
ficer or its Chief Operating Officer or its President or one of its Vice
Presidents or by its Chief Financial Officer or its Treasurer or any Assis-
tant Treasurer or, in the case of Foreign Subsidiaries, officers or persons
performing comparable functions.
"Other Taxes":  as defined in subsection 4.11(d)(ii).
"Participants":  as defined in subsection 11.6(b).
"Participating Lender":  any Revolving Credit Lender (other
than the Issuing Lender) with respect to its L/C Participating Interest in
each Letter of Credit.
"PBGC":  the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation established
pursuant to Subtitle A of Title IV of ERISA or any successor.
"Pension Plan":  an employee pension benefit plan (other than a
Multiemployer Plan) which is covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the
minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of
ERISA and is maintained or contributed to by any ERISA Entity or with re-
spect to which Borrower or a Subsidiary could incur liability.
"Permitted Encumbrances":  with respect to any Mortgaged Prop-
erty, such exceptions to title as are set forth in the title insurance pol-
icy delivered with respect thereto.
"Permitted Holder":  any of (i) Mark J. Wattles, (ii) an em-
ployee benefit plan of Borrower, or any Subsidiary of Borrower or any par-
ticipant therein, (iii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities un-
der an employee benefit plan of Borrower or any Subsidiary of Borrower or
(iv) any Permitted Transferee of any of the foregoing persons.
"Permitted Liens":  Liens permitted to exist under subsection
8.2.
"Permitted Transferee":  with respect to any Person (i) any Af-
filiate of such Person (for the purpose of this definition only, the refer-
ence to 20% in the second sentence of the definition of "Affiliate" shall
be 51%), (ii) the heirs, executors, administrators, testamentary trustees,
legatees or beneficiaries of any such Person, (iii) a trust, the benefici-
aries of which, or a corporation or partnership, the stockholders or gen-
eral or limited partners of which include only such Person or his or her
spouse, lineal descendants, heirs, legatees, or beneficiaries, in each case
to whom such Person has transferred the beneficial ownership of any securi-
ties of Borrower, (iv) any investment account whose investment managers and
investment advisors consist solely of such Person and/or Permitted Trans-
ferees of such Person, and (v) any investment fund or investment entity
that is a subsidiary of such Person or Permitted Transferee of such Person.
"Person":  an individual, partnership, corporation, business
trust, joint stock company, limited liability company, trust, unincorpo-
rated association, joint venture, Governmental Authority or other entity of
whatever nature.
"Preferred Stock":  with respect to any Person, any and all
preferred stock of such Person.
"Qualified Subsidiary":  each wholly owned Subsidiary Guarantor
that is not an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
"Real Property":  each Fee Property and Leased Property listed
on Schedule 5.13.
"Refinancing":  the refinancing, renewal, extension, replace-
ment, defeasance or refunding, in whole or in part, of any Indebtedness of
Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries; provided that (i) any such Refinancing
is in an aggregate principal amount not greater than the aggregate princi-
pal amount of the Indebtedness being renewed or refinanced, plus the amount
of any accrued but unpaid interest or premiums required to be paid thereon
and reasonable fees and expenses associated therewith; and (ii) such Refi-
nancing has a later or equal final maturity and longer or equal weighted
average life than the Indebtedness being renewed or refinanced.
"Refunded Swing Line Loans":  as defined in subsection 3.4(b).
"Register":  as defined in subsection 11.6(d).
"Regulation U":  Regulation U (12 C.F.R. Part 221) of the Board
of Governors of the United States Federal Reserve System (or any succes-
sor), as the same may be modified and supplemented and in effect from time
to time.
"Regulation X":  Regulation X (12 C.F.R. Part 224) of the Board
of Governors of the United States Federal Reserve System (or any succes-
sor), as the same may be modified and supplemented and in effect from time
to time.
"Rental Items":  videotapes, video discs (regardless of for-
mat), video games, audiotapes and related equipment to the extent that such
items were acquired by Borrower or its Restricted Subsidiaries for sale or
rental to their customers or are held by Borrower or its Restricted Sub-
sidiaries for sale or rental to their customers.
"Required Lenders":  at a particular time, the holders of in
excess of 50% of the sum of (i) the Tranche B Term Loans then outstanding
and (ii) the Revolving Credit Commitments, or if the Revolving Credit Com-
mitments have been terminated in full, the Revolving Credit Exposure.  The
Tranche B Term Loans and the Revolving Credit Commitments of any Non-
Funding Lender shall be disregarded in determining Required Lenders at any
time.
"Requirement of Law":  as to any Person, the Articles or Cer-
tificate of Incorporation and By-Laws or other organizational or governing
documents of such Person, and any law, treaty, rule or regulation, order or
determination of an arbitrator or a court or other Governmental Authority,
in each case, applicable to or binding upon such Person or any of its prop-
erty or to which such Person or any of its property is subject.
"Responsible Officer":  with respect to any Person, the presi-
dent, chief executive officer, the chief operating officer, the chief fi-
nancial officer, treasurer, corporate controller, secretary or any vice
president of such Person.
"Restricted Subsidiary":  each Subsidiary of Borrower that is
not an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
"Revolving Credit Commitment":  as to any Lender, its obliga-
tions to (i) make Revolving Credit Loans to Borrower pursuant to subsection
3.1 and (ii) purchase its L/C Participating Interest in any Letter of
Credit, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the amount set forth under
such Lender's name in Schedule I opposite the caption "Revolving Credit
Commitment" or in Schedule I to the Assignment and Acceptance by which such
Lender acquired its Revolving Credit Commitment, as the same may be reduced
from time to time pursuant to subsection 4.3 or 4.4(b) or adjusted pursuant
to subsection 11.6(c); collectively, as to all the Lenders, the "Revolving
Credit Commitments".
"Revolving Credit Commitment Percentage":  as to any Lender at
any time, the percentage of the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments then
constituted by such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment.
"Revolving Credit Commitment Period":  the period from and in-
cluding the Closing Date to but not including the Revolving Credit Termina-
tion Date.
"Revolving Credit Exposure":  the sum of (i) the aggregate un-
paid principal amount of the Revolving Credit Loans, (ii) participations in
Swing Line Loans, (iii) the aggregate amount available to be drawn at such
time under all outstanding Letters of Credit and (iv) L/C Obligations.
"Revolving Credit Facility":  as defined in the definition of
Facility.
"Revolving Credit Lender":  any Lender with a Revolving Credit
Commitment.
"Revolving Credit Loans":  as defined in subsection 3.1(a).
"Revolving Credit Note":  as defined in subsection 4.13(e).
"Revolving Credit Termination Date":  the earlier of (a) the
Maturity Date and (b) such other earlier date as the Revolving Credit Com-
mitments shall terminate hereunder.
"Sale and Leaseback Transaction":  any arrangement, directly or
indirectly, with any Person whereby it shall sell or transfer any property
used or useful in its business, whether now owned or hereafter acquired,
and thereafter rent or lease such property or other property which it in-
tends to use for substantially the same purpose or purposes as the property
being sold or transferred.
"SEC":  the Securities and Exchange Commission, any successor
thereto and any analogous Governmental Authority.
"Secured Parties":  the collective reference to the Administra-
tive Agent, the Lenders and each party to an Interest Rate Agreement relat-
ing to the Loans if at the date of entering into such Interest Rate Agree-
ment such Person was a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender.
"Securities Account":  as defined in the Collateral Agreement.
"Security Agreements":  the collective reference to the Collat-
eral Agreement and any security agreement which may from time to time be
executed and delivered by Borrower or a Subsidiary of Borrower pursuant to
subsection 7.9.
"Security Documents":  the collective reference to the Security
Agreements, the Mortgages, all UCC or other financing statements and other
instruments of perfection required by this Agreement, the Security Agree-
ments or the Mortgages to be executed, delivered and/or filed or recorded,
and any other documents utilized to pledge to the Administrative Agent, for
its benefit and for the benefit of the other Secured Parties, any other
property or assets as collateral for the Obligations.
"Solvent" and "Solvency":  when used with respect to any Per-
son, as of any date of determination, (a) the amount of the "present fair
saleable value" of the assets of such Person will, as of such date, exceed
the amount of all "liabilities of such Person, contingent or otherwise", as
of such date, as such quoted terms are determined in accordance with appli-
cable federal and state laws governing determinations of the insolvency of
debtors, (b) the present fair saleable value of the assets of such Person
will, as of such date, be greater than the amount that will be required to
pay the liability of such Person on its debts as such debts become absolute
and matured, (c) such Person will not have, as of such date, an unreasona-
bly small amount of capital with which to conduct its business, and (d)
such Person will be able to pay its debts as they mature.  For purposes of
this definition, (i) "debt" means liability on a "claim", and (ii) "claim"
means any (x) right to payment, whether or not such a right is reduced to
judgment, liquidated, unliquidated, fixed, contingent, matured, unmatured,
disputed, undisputed, legal, equitable, secured or unsecured, or (y) right
to an equitable remedy for breach of performance if such breach gives rise
to a right to payment, whether or not such right to an equitable remedy is
reduced to judgment, fixed, contingent, matured or unmatured, disputed, un-
disputed, secured or unsecured.
"SPV":  as defined in subsection 11.6(i).
"Standby L/C":  an irrevocable letter of credit under which the
Issuing Lender agrees to make payments in Dollars for the account of Bor-
rower, on behalf of Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary in respect of ob-
ligations of Borrower or such Subsidiary incurred pursuant to contracts
made or performances undertaken or to be undertaken or like matters relat-
ing to contracts to which Borrower or such Restricted Subsidiary is or pro-
poses to become a party in Borrower's or such Restricted Subsidiary's busi-
ness, including, without limiting the foregoing, for insurance purposes or
in respect of advance payments or as bid or performance bonds or for any
other purpose for which a standby letter of credit might customarily be is-
sued.
"Store":  each separate location at which Borrower or any Re-
stricted Subsidiary of Borrower engages in the rental of Rental Items to
the public.
"Subordinated Indebtedness":  any Indebtedness of Borrower or
any Subsidiary of Borrower that (a) is subordinated to all Indebtedness un-
der the Facilities pursuant to subordination provisions substantially simi-
lar to (or more favorable to the Lenders than) those contained in the Ex-
isting Indenture, (b) matures after the Maturity Date and provides for no
amortization payments of principal until after the Maturity Date and (c) is
not secured by any Lien.
"Subsidiary":  as to any Person, a corporation, partnership,
limited liability company or other entity of which shares of stock of each
class or other interests having ordinary voting power (other than stock or
other interests having such power only by reason of the occurrence of a
contingency) to elect a majority of the board of directors or other manag-
ers of such corporation, partnership or other entity are at the time owned,
or the management of which is otherwise controlled, by such Person or by
one or more Subsidiaries of such Person or by such Person and one or more
Subsidiaries of such Person.  A Subsidiary shall be deemed wholly owned by
a Person who owns directly or indirectly all of the voting shares of stock
or other interests of such Subsidiary having voting power under ordinary
circumstances to vote for directors or other managers of such corporation,
partnership or other entity, except for directors' qualifying shares.  Un-
less otherwise qualified, all references to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidi-
aries" in this Agreement shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of
Borrower; provided that any joint venture or Person in which an investment
is made pursuant to subsection 8.6(g) shall at the option of Borrower, so
long as such investment is maintained in reliance on such subsection, not
be a "Subsidiary" of Borrower for any purpose of this Agreement.
"Subsidiary Guarantee":  the Subsidiary Guarantee, substan-
tially in the form of Exhibit I, to be made by Restricted Subsidiaries in
favor of the Administrative Agent for the ratable benefit of the Lenders,
as the same may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time.
"Supermajority Facility Lenders":  with respect to each Facil-
ity, the Lenders which would constitute the Majority Facility Lenders in
accordance with the definition thereof contained herein if the percentage
"50%" appearing therein were changed to "66-2/3%".
"Supermajority Lenders":  at a particular time, the holders of
at least 66-2/3% of the sum of (i) the aggregate unpaid principal amount of
the Tranche B Term Loans, if any, and (ii) the Revolving Credit Commitments
or, if the Revolving Credit Commitments are terminated, the aggregate un-
paid principal amount of the Revolving Credit Loans, and participations in
Swing Line Loans and the aggregate amount available to be drawn at such
time under all outstanding Letters of Credit and L/C Obligations.  The
Tranche B Term Loans and the Revolving Credit Commitments of any Non-
Funding Lender shall be disregarded in determining Supermajority Lenders at
any time.
"Survey":  a survey of any Mortgaged Property (and all improve-
ments thereon):  (i) prepared by a surveyor or engineer licensed to perform
surveys in the state, province or country where such Mortgaged Property is
located, (ii) dated as of a recent date reasonably acceptable to the Admin-
istrative Agent, (iii) certified by the surveyor (in a manner reasonably
acceptable to the Administrative Agent) to the Administrative Agent and the
Title Company reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent, and (iv)
complying in all material respects with the minimum detail requirements of
the American Land Title Association as such requirements are in effect on
the date of preparation of such survey; provided, however, that such survey
is in a form sufficient for the Title Company to remove all standard survey
exceptions from the title insurance policy (or commitment) and issue a sur-
vey and comprehensive endorsement with respect to such Mortgaged Property.
"Swing Line Commitment":  the Swing Line Lender's obligation to
make Swing Line Loans pursuant to subsection 3.4.
"Swing Line Lender":  UBS AG, Stamford Branch, in its capacity
as lender of the Swing Line Loans.
"Swing Line Loan Participation Certificate":  a certificate in
substantially the form of Exhibit J.
"Swing Line Loans":  as defined in subsection 3.4(a).
"Swing Line Note":  as defined in subsection 4.13(e).
"Taking":  any taking of the Collateral or any portion thereof,
in or by condemnation or other eminent domain proceedings pursuant to any
law, general or special, or by reason of the temporary requisition of the
use of the Collateral or any portion thereof, by any Governmental Author-
ity, civil or military.
"Taxes":  any and all present or future taxes, duties, levies,
fees, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, whether computed on a
separate, consolidated, unitary, combined or other basis and any and all
liabilities (including interest, fines, penalties or additions to tax) with
respect to the foregoing, but excluding Excluded Taxes.
"Term B Loan Facility":  as defined in the definition of Facil-
ity.
"Title Company":  such title insurance company as shall be re-
tained by Borrower and reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent.
"Title Policy":  as defined in subsection 7.9(d).
"Total Revenues":  for any period, aggregate revenues of Bor-
rower and the Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, determined in accor-
dance with GAAP.
"Tranche":  the Tranche B Term Loans or the Revolving Credit
Commitment, as the case may be.
"Tranche B Installment Payment Date":  as defined in subsection
4.4(c).
"Tranche B Lender":  each Lender that has a Tranche B Term Loan
Commitment or is the holder of a Tranche B Term Loan.
"Tranche B Term Loan":  as defined in subsection 2.1.
"Tranche B Term Loan Commitment":  as to any Tranche B Lender,
its obligation to make a Tranche B Term Loan to Borrower pursuant to sub-
section 2.1 in an aggregate amount not to exceed the amount set forth under
such Lender's name in Schedule I opposite the caption "Tranche B Term Loan
Commitment" or in Schedule 1 to the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to
which a Lender acquires its Tranche B Term Loan Commitment, as the same may
be adjusted pursuant to subsection 11.6(c); collectively, as to all the
Tranche B Lenders, the "Tranche B Term Loan Commitments".
"Tranche B Term Loan Commitment Percentage":  as to any Tranche
B Lender at any time, the percentage of the aggregate Tranche B Term Loan
Commitments then constituted by such Lender's Tranche B Term Loan Commit-
ment (or, after the Tranche B Term Loans are made, the percentage of the
aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Tranche B Term Loans then
constituted by the principal amount of such Tranche B Lender's Tranche B
Term Loan).
"Tranche B Term Note":  as defined in subsection 4.13(e).
"Transaction Documents":  the collective reference to each
document pursuant to which each of the Transactions will be consummated.
"Transactions":  as defined in the Recitals hereto.
"Transferee":  as defined in subsection 11.6(f).
"Type":  as to any Loan, its nature as an Alternate Base Rate
Loan or Eurodollar Loan.
"UCC":  the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the appli-
cable jurisdiction.
"Uniform Customs":  the Uniform Customs and Practice for Docu-
mentary Credits (1993 Revision), International Chamber of Commerce Publica-
tion No. 500, and any amendments thereof.
"United States":  the United States of America.
"United States Person":  any Person organized under the laws of
the United States or any state thereof or the District of Columbia.
"Unrestricted Subsidiary":  any Subsidiary of Borrower that, at
the time of determination, shall be an Unrestricted Subsidiary (as desig-
nated by the board of directors of Borrower, as provided below).  The board
of directors of Borrower may designate any Subsidiary of Borrower (includ-
ing any newly acquired or newly formed Subsidiary at or prior to the time
it is so formed or acquired) to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary if (a) no De-
fault is existing or will occur as a consequence thereof, (b) such Subsidi-
ary does not own any Capital Stock of, or own or hold any Lien on any prop-
erty of, Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (other than Unrestricted Sub-
sidiaries), (c) such Subsidiary and each of its Subsidiaries has not at the
time of designation, and does not thereafter, create, incur, issue, assume,
guarantee, or otherwise become directly or indirectly liable with respect
any Indebtedness pursuant to which the lender has recourse to any property
of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (other than Unrestricted Subsidiar-
ies), (d) a default by such Person on any of its Indebtedness will not re-
sult in, or permit any holder of Indebtedness of Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries (other than Unrestricted Subsidiaries) to declare, a default
on such Indebtedness of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (other than Un-
restricted Subsidiaries) or cause the payment thereof to be accelerated or
payable prior to its stated maturity, and (e) at the time of such designa-
tion such Subsidiary shall not have more than de minimis assets.  Any Sub-
sidiary of an Unrestricted Subsidiary shall be an Unrestricted Subsidiary
for purposes of this Agreement.  Each such designation shall be evidenced
by filing with the Administrative Agent a certified copy of the resolution
giving effect to such designation and an Officers' Certificate certifying
that such designation complied with the foregoing conditions.
"Withdrawal Liability":  liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a
result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as
such terms are defined in Part 1 of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
"Working Capital Deficit":  in relation to any Person as at any
date, the sum derived by subtracting Adjusted Current Liabilities from Ad-
justed Current Assets of such Person as at such date.
1.2.  Rules of Construction.  (a)  In this Agreement and each
other Credit Document, unless the context clearly requires otherwise (or
such other Credit Document clearly provides otherwise), references to
(i) the plural include the singular, the singular the plural and the part
the whole; (ii) Persons include their respective permitted successors and
assigns or, in the case of governmental Persons, Persons succeeding to the
relevant functions of such Persons; (iii) agreements (including this Agree-
ment), promissory notes and other contractual instruments include subse-
quent amendments, assignments, and other modifications thereto, but only to
the extent such amendments, assignments or other modifications thereto are
not prohibited by their terms or the terms of any Credit Document;
(iv) statutes and related regulations include any amendments of same and
any successor statutes and regulations; and (v) time shall be a reference
to New York, New York time.  Where any provision herein refers to action to
be taken by any Person, or which such Person is prohibited from taking,
such provision shall be applicable whether such action is taken directly or
indirectly by such Person.
(b)  In this Agreement and each other Credit Document, unless
the context clearly requires otherwise (or such other Credit Document
clearly provides otherwise), (i) "amend" shall mean "amend, restate, amend
and restate, supplement or modify"; and "amended," "amending," and "amend-
ment" shall have meanings correlative to the foregoing; (ii) in the compu-
tation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date,
"from" shall mean "from and including"; "to" and "until" shall mean "to but
excluding"; and "through" shall mean "to and including"; (iii) "hereof,"
"herein" and "hereunder" (and similar terms) in this Agreement or any other
Credit Document refer to this Agreement or such other Credit Document, as
the case may be, as a whole and not to any particular provision of this
Agreement or such other Credit Document; (iv) "including" (and similar
terms) shall mean "including without limitation" (and similarly for similar
terms); (v) "or" has the inclusive meaning represented by the phrase
"and/or"; (vi) "satisfactory to" the Administrative Agent shall mean in
form, scope and substance and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Administrative Agent; (vii) references to "the date hereof" shall mean the
date first set forth above; and (viii) "asset" and "property" shall have
the same meaning and effect and refer to all tangible and intangible assets
and property, whether real, personal or mixed and of every type and de-
scription.
(c)  In this Agreement unless the context clearly requires oth-
erwise, any reference to (i) an Annex, Exhibit or Schedule is to an Annex,
Exhibit or Schedule, as the case may be, attached to this Agreement and
constituting a part hereof, and (ii) a Section or other subsection is to a
Section or such other subsection of this Agreement.
SECTION 2.	TRANCHE B TERM LOANS
2.1.  Tranche B Term Loans.  Subject to the terms and condi-
tions hereof, each Tranche B Lender severally agrees to make a loan in Dol-
lars (individually, a "Tranche B Term Loan"; and collectively, the "Tranche
B Term Loans") to Borrower on the Closing Date, in an aggregate principal
amount equal to such Lender's Tranche B Term Loan Commitment.
2.2.  Repayment of Tranche B Term Loans.  Borrower may repay
Tranche B Term Loans as provided in subsection 4.4(a) and shall repay the
Tranche B Term Loans as provided in subsections 4.4(b) and (c).
2.3.  Use of Proceeds.  The proceeds of the Tranche B Term
Loans shall be used to finance a portion of the Transactions and to pay
fees, expenses and financing costs in connection therewith.
SECTION 3.	AMOUNT AND TERMS OF REVOLVING CREDIT
COMMITMENTS
3.1.  Revolving Credit Commitments.  (a)  Subject to the terms
and conditions hereof, each Lender severally agrees to the extent of its
Revolving Credit Commitment to extend credit to Borrower at any time and
from time to time on any Borrowing Date during the Revolving Credit Commit-
ment Period (i) by purchasing an L/C Participating Interest in each Letter
of Credit issued by the Issuing Lender and (ii) by making loans in Dollars
(individually, a "Revolving Credit Loan", and collectively, the "Revolving
Credit Loans") to Borrower from time to time.  Notwithstanding the above,
in no event shall any Revolving Credit Loans be made, or Letter of Credit
be issued, if the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Loans to be made
or Letter of Credit to be issued would, after giving effect to the use of
proceeds, if any, thereof, exceed the aggregate Available Revolving Credit
Commitments nor shall any Letter of Credit be issued if after giving effect
thereto the sum of the undrawn amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit
and the amount of all L/C Obligations would exceed $10,000,000.
(b)  During the Revolving Credit Commitment Period, Borrower
may use the Revolving Credit Commitments by borrowing, prepaying the Re-
volving Credit Loans in whole or in part, and reborrowing, all in accor-
dance with the terms and conditions hereof, and/or by having the Issuing
Lender issue Letters of Credit, having such Letters of Credit expire un-
drawn upon or if drawn upon, reimbursing the Issuing Lender for such draw-
ing, and having the Issuing Lender issue new Letters of Credit.
(c)  Each borrowing of Revolving Credit Loans pursuant to the
Revolving Credit Commitments shall be in an aggregate principal amount of
the lesser of (i) $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess
thereof in the case of Alternate Base Rate Loans, and $1,000,000 or a whole
multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof, in the case of Eurodollar Loans,
and (ii) the Available Revolving Credit Commitments, except that any bor-
rowing of Revolving Credit Loans to be used solely to pay a like amount of
Swing Line Loans may be in the aggregate principal amount of such Swing
Line Loans.
3.2.  Commitment Fee.  Borrower agrees to pay to the Adminis-
trative Agent for the account of each Lender (other than any Non-Funding
Lender) a commitment fee from and including the Closing Date to but exclud-
ing the Revolving Credit Termination Date computed at the Commitment Fee
Rate on the average daily amount of the Available Revolving Credit Commit-
ment of such Lender during the period for which payment is made (whether or
not Borrower shall have satisfied the applicable conditions to borrow or
for the issuance of a Letter of Credit set forth in Section 6).  Such com-
mitment fee shall be payable quarterly in arrears on the last day of each
March, June, September and December and on the Revolving Credit Termination
Date, commencing on the first such date to occur on or following the Clos-
ing Date (or, if earlier, the Revolving Credit Termination Date).
3.3.  Proceeds of Revolving Credit Loans.  Borrower shall use
the proceeds of Revolving Credit Loans to provide for the ongoing working
capital and general corporate purposes of Borrower and its Subsidiaries af-
ter the Closing Date (it being understood that no Revolving Credit Loans
shall be made on the Closing Date).
3.4.  Swing Line Commitment.  (a)  Subject to the terms and
conditions hereof, the Swing Line Lender agrees, so long as the Administra-
tive Agent has not received notice that an Event of Default has occurred
and is continuing, to make swing line loans (individually, a "Swing Line
Loan"; collectively, the "Swing Line Loans") to Borrower at any time and
from time to time during the Revolving Credit Commitment Period in an ag-
gregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed
$10,000,000; provided that no Swing Line Loan may be made if the aggregate
principal amount of the Swing Line Loans to be made would exceed the aggre-
gate Available Revolving Credit Commitments at such time.  Amounts borrowed
by Borrower under this subsection 3.4 may be repaid and, through but ex-
cluding the Revolving Credit Termination Date, reborrowed.  All Swing Line
Loans shall be made as Alternate Base Rate Loans and shall not be entitled
to be converted into Eurodollar Loans.  Borrower shall give the Swing Line
Lender irrevocable notice (which notice must be received by the Swing Line
Lender prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time) on the requested Borrowing
Date specifying the amount of each requested Swing Line Loan, which shall
be in an aggregate minimum amount of $250,000 or a whole multiple of
$100,000 in excess thereof.  The Swing Line Lender shall, before 5:00 p.m.
(New York City time) on such requested Borrowing Date, make available to
Borrower in same day funds, the proceeds of such Swing Line Loans by cred-
iting the account of Borrower at the office of the Swing Line Lender with
such proceeds.  The proceeds of Swing Line Loans may be used solely for the
purposes referred to in subsection 3.3.
(b)  If not repaid by Borrower prior to such time, including
without limitation, from the proceeds of a Revolving Credit Loan, the Swing
Line Lender at any time in its sole and absolute discretion may, and on the
fifteenth day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the next Business Day)
and last Business Day of each month shall, on behalf of Borrower (which
hereby irrevocably directs the Swing Line Lender to act on its behalf) re-
quest each Revolving Credit Lender, including the Swing Line Lender, to
make a Revolving Credit Loan in an amount equal to such Lender's Revolving
Credit Commitment Percentage of the amount of the Swing Line Loans (the
"Refunded Swing Line Loans") outstanding on the date such notice is given.
Unless any of the events described in paragraph (f) of Section 9 shall have
occurred and be continuing (in which event the procedures of paragraph
(c) of this subsection 3.4 shall apply), each such Lender shall make the
proceeds of its Revolving Credit Loan available to the Swing Line Lender
for the account of the Swing Line Lender at the office of the Swing Line
Lender specified in subsection 11.2 (or such other location as the Swing
Line Lender may direct) prior to 12:00 noon (New York City time) in funds
immediately available on the Business Day next succeeding the date such no-
tice is given.  The proceeds of such Revolving Credit Loans shall be imme-
diately applied to repay the Refunded Swing Line Loans.
(c)  If, prior to the making of a Revolving Credit Loan pursu-
ant to paragraph (b) of this subsection 3.4, one of the events described in
paragraph (f) of Section 9 shall have occurred and be continuing, each Re-
volving Credit Lender will, on the date such Loan was to have been made,
purchase an undivided participating interest in the Refunded Swing Line
Loan in an amount equal to its Revolving Credit Commitment Percentage of
such Refunded Swing Line Loan.  Each such Lender will immediately transfer
to the Swing Line Lender in immediately available funds, the amount of its
participation and upon receipt thereof the Swing Line Lender will deliver
to such Lender a Swing Line Loan Participation Certificate dated the date
of receipt of such funds and in such amount.
(d)  Whenever, at any time after the Swing Line Lender has re-
ceived from any Revolving Credit Lender such Lender's participating inter-
est in a Refunded Swing Line Loan, the Swing Line Lender receives any pay-
ment on account thereof, the Swing Line Lender will distribute to such
Lender its participating interest in such amount (appropriately adjusted,
in the case of interest payments, to reflect the period of time during
which such Lender's participating interest was outstanding and funded) in
like funds as received; provided that, in the event that such payment re-
ceived by the Swing Line Lender is required to be returned, such Lender
will return to the Swing Line Lender any portion thereof previously dis-
tributed by the Swing Line Lender to it in like funds as such payment is
required to be returned by the Swing Line Lender.
(e)  The obligation of each Revolving Credit Lender to purchase
participating interests pursuant to subsection 3.4(c) shall be absolute and
unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including,
without limitation, (i) any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or
other right which such Lender may have against the Swing Line Lender, Bor-
rower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever; (ii) the occurrence or
continuance of an Event of Default; (iii) any adverse change in the condi-
tion (financial or otherwise) of Borrower; (iv) any breach of this Agree-
ment by Borrower or any other Lender; or (v) any other circumstance, hap-
pening or event whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing.
3.5.  Issuance of Letters of Credit.  (a)  Borrower may from
time to time request the Issuing Lender to issue a Standby L/C or a Commer-
cial L/C by delivering to the Administrative Agent at its address specified
in subsection 11.2 (or such other location as the Issuing Lender may di-
rect) a letter of credit application in the Issuing Lender's then customary
form (the "L/C Application") completed to the satisfaction of the Issuing
Lender, together with the proposed form of such Letter of Credit (which
shall comply with the applicable requirements of paragraph (b) below) and
such other certificates, documents and other papers and information as the
Issuing Lender may reasonably request; provided that if the Issuing Lender
informs Borrower that it is for any reason unable to open such Letter of
Credit, Borrower may request any Lender to open such Letter of Credit upon
the same terms offered to the Issuing Lender and each reference to the Is-
suing Lender for purposes of subsections 3.5 through 3.13, 6.1 and 6.2
shall be deemed to be a reference to such Issuing Lender.
(b)  Each Standby L/C and Commercial L/C issued hereunder shall
be issued for the account of Borrower and shall, among other things, (i) be
in such form requested by Borrower as shall be acceptable to the Issuing
Lender in its sole discretion and (ii) have an expiry date occurring not
later than (a) 365 days, in the case of a Standby L/C, or (b) 120 days, in
the case of a Commercial L/C, after the date of issuance of such Letter of
Credit, and, in the case of Standby L/Cs, may provide for the renewal
thereof on its expiry date for an additional period equal to the initial
term, but in no case shall any Letter of Credit have an expiry date occur-
ring later than the Revolving Credit Termination Date.  Each L/C Applica-
tion and each Letter of Credit shall be subject to the International
Standby Practices (ISP 98) of the International Chamber of Commerce (in the
case of Standby L/Cs) or the Uniform Customs (in the case of Commercial
L/Cs) and, to the extent not inconsistent therewith, the laws of the State
of New York.
3.6.  Participating Interests.  Effective in the case of each
Standby L/C and Commercial L/C (if applicable) as of the date of the open-
ing thereof, the Issuing Lender agrees to allot and does allot, to itself
and each other Revolving Credit Lender, and each such Lender severally and
irrevocably agrees to take and does take in such Letter of Credit and the
related L/C Application (if applicable), an L/C Participating Interest in a
percentage equal to such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment Percentage.
3.7.  Procedure for Opening Letters of Credit.  The Issuing
Lender will notify each Lender after the end of each calendar month of any
L/C Applications received by the Issuing Lender from Borrower during such
month.  Upon receipt of any L/C Application from Borrower, the Issuing
Lender will process such L/C Application, and the other certificates, docu-
ments and other papers delivered to the Issuing Lender in connection there-
with, in accordance with its customary procedures and, subject to the terms
and conditions hereof, shall promptly open such Letter of Credit by issuing
the original of such Letter of Credit to the beneficiary thereof and by
furnishing a copy thereof to Borrower and, after the end of the calendar
month in which such Letter of Credit was opened, to the other Lenders; pro-
vided that no such Letter of Credit shall be issued if subsection 3.1 would
be violated thereby.
3.8.  Payments in Respect of Letters of Credit.  (a)  Borrower
agrees forthwith upon demand by the Issuing Lender and otherwise in accor-
dance with the terms of the L/C Application relating thereto, (i) to reim-
burse the Issuing Lender for any payment made by the Issuing Lender under
any Letter of Credit issued for the account of Borrower and (ii) to pay in-
terest on any unreimbursed portion of any such payment from the date of
such payment until reimbursement in full thereof at a rate per annum equal
to (a) on or prior to the date which is one Business Day after the day on
which the Issuing Lender demands reimbursement from Borrower for such pay-
ment, the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin for the Revolving
Credit Loans and (b) thereafter, the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applica-
ble Margin for the Revolving Credit Loans plus 2%.  Each drawing under any
Letter of Credit shall (unless an event of the type described in para-
graph (f) of Section 9 shall have occurred and be continuing, in which case
the procedures specified in this subsection 3.8 for payments in respect of
Letters of Credit shall apply) constitute a request by Borrower to the Ad-
ministrative Agent for a borrowing pursuant to subsection 3.1(a) of Alter-
nate Base Rate Loans in the amount of such drawing.  The Borrowing Date
with respect to such borrowing shall be the date of payment of the relevant
drawing.
(b)  In the event that the Issuing Lender makes a payment under
any Letter of Credit and is not reimbursed in full therefor pursuant to
subsection 3.8(a) forthwith upon demand of the Issuing Lender, and other-
wise in accordance with the terms of the L/C Application relating to such
Letter of Credit, the Issuing Lender will promptly notify each other Re-
volving Credit Lender.  Forthwith upon its receipt of any such notice, each
such other Lender will transfer to the Issuing Lender, in immediately
available funds, an amount equal to such other Lender's pro rata share
(based on its Revolving Credit Commitment) of the L/C Obligation arising
from such unreimbursed payment.  Promptly, upon its receipt from such other
Lender of such amount, the Issuing Lender will complete, execute and de-
liver to such other Lender an L/C Participation Certificate dated the date
of such receipt and in such amount.
(c)  Whenever, at any time after the Issuing Lender has made a
payment under any Letter of Credit and has received from any other Revolv-
ing Credit Lender such other Lender's pro rata share of the L/C Obligation
arising therefrom, the Issuing Lender receives any reimbursement on account
of such L/C Obligation or any payment of interest on account thereof, the
Issuing Lender will promptly distribute to such other Lender its pro rata
share thereof in like funds as received; provided that in the event that
the receipt by the Issuing Lender of such reimbursement or such payment of
interest (as the case may be) is required to be returned, such other Lender
will return to the Issuing Lender any portion thereof previously distrib-
uted by the Issuing Lender to it in like funds as such reimbursement or
payment is required to be returned by the Issuing Lender.
3.9.  Letter of Credit Fees.  (a)  In lieu of any letter of
credit commissions and fees provided for in any L/C Application relating to
Standby or Commercial L/Cs (other than standard issuance, amendment and ne-
gotiation fees), Borrower agrees to pay the Administrative Agent, (i) for
the account of the Issuing Lender and the Participating Lenders, with re-
spect to each Standby or Commercial L/C issued for the account of Borrower,
a Standby or Commercial L/C fee, as the case may be, equal to the Applica-
ble Margin for Revolving Credit Loans which are Eurodollar Loans per annum;
and (ii) in addition to the Standby or Commercial L/C fee referred to in
subsection 3.9(a)(i) above, for the account of the Issuing Lender and not
on account of its L/C Participating Interest therein, 0.25% per annum, each
on the daily average amount available to be drawn under each Standby L/C in
the case of a Standby L/C and on the maximum face amount of each Commercial
L/C in the case of a Commercial L/C, in either case, payable, in arrears,
on the last day of each fiscal quarter of Borrower.  The Administrative
Agent will disburse any Standby or Commercial L/C fees received pursuant to
subsection 3.9(a)(i) to the respective Lenders promptly following the re-
ceipt of any such fees.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Borrower agrees to
pay standard issuance, amendment and negotiation fees to the Issuing
Lender.
(b)  For purposes of any payment of fees required pursuant to
this subsection 3.9, the Administrative Agent agrees to provide to Borrower
a statement of any such fees to be so paid; provided that the failure by
the Administrative Agent to provide Borrower with any such invoice shall
not relieve Borrower of its obligation to pay such fees.
3.10.  Letter of Credit Reserves.  (a)  If any Change in Law
shall either (i) impose, modify, deem or make applicable any reserve, spe-
cial deposit, assessment or similar requirement against letters of credit
issued by the Issuing Lender or (ii) impose on the Issuing Lender any other
condition regarding this Agreement (with respect to Letters of Credit) or
any Letter of Credit, and the result of any event referred to in clause
(i) or (ii) above shall be to increase the cost of the Issuing Lender of
issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit (which increase in cost shall
be the result of the Issuing Lender's reasonable allocation of the aggre-
gate of such cost increases resulting from such events), then, upon demand
by the Issuing Lender, Borrower shall immediately pay to the Issuing
Lender, from time to time as specified by the Issuing Lender, additional
amounts which shall be sufficient to compensate the Issuing Lender for such
increased cost, together with interest on each such amount from the date
demanded until payment in full thereof at a rate per annum equal to the
rate applicable to Alternate Base Rate Loans pursuant to subsection 4.5(b).
Borrower shall not be required to make any payments to the Issuing Lender
for any additional amounts pursuant to this subsection 3.10(a) unless the
Issuing Lender has given written notice to Borrower of its intent to re-
quest such payments prior to or within 60 days after the date on which the
Issuing Lender became entitled to claim such amounts.  A certificate, set-
ting forth in reasonable detail the calculation of the amounts involved,
submitted by the Issuing Lender to Borrower concurrently with any such de-
mand by the Issuing Lender, shall be conclusive, absent manifest error, as
to the amount thereof.
(b)  In the event that any Change in Law with respect to the
Issuing Lender shall, in the opinion of the Issuing Lender, require that
any obligation under any Letter of Credit be treated as an asset or other-
wise be included for purposes of calculating the appropriate amount of
capital to be maintained by the Issuing Lender or any corporation control-
ling the Issuing Lender, and such Change in Law shall have the effect of
reducing the rate of return on the Issuing Lender's or such corporation's
capital, as the case may be, as a consequence of the Issuing Lender's obli-
gations under such Letter of Credit to a level below that which the Issuing
Lender or such corporation, as the case may be, could have achieved but for
such Change in Law (taking into account the Issuing Lender's or such corpo-
ration's policies, as the case may be, with respect to capital adequacy) by
an amount deemed by the Issuing Lender to be material, then from time to
time following notice by the Issuing Lender to Borrower of such Change in
Law, within 15 days after demand by the Issuing Lender, Borrower shall pay
to the Issuing Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate
the Issuing Lender or such corporation, as the case may be, for such reduc-
tion.  The Issuing Lender agrees that, upon the occurrence of any event
giving rise to the operation of paragraph (a) or (b) of this subsection
3.10 with respect to the Issuing Lender, it will, if requested by Borrower
and to the extent permitted by law or by the relevant Governmental Author-
ity, endeavor in good faith to avoid or minimize the increase in costs or
reduction in payments resulting from such event; provided that such avoid-
ance or minimization can be made in such a manner that the Issuing Lender,
in its sole determination, suffers no economic, legal or regulatory disad-
vantage.  Borrower shall not be required to make any payments to the Issu-
ing Lender for any additional amounts pursuant to this subsection
3.10(b) unless the Issuing Lender has given written notice to Borrower of
its intent to request such payments prior to or within 60 days after the
date on which the Issuing Lender became entitled to claim such amounts.  A
certificate, in reasonable detail setting forth the calculation of the
amounts involved, submitted by the Issuing Lender to Borrower concurrently
with any such demand by the Issuing Lender, shall be conclusive, absent
manifest error, as to the amount thereof.
(c)  Borrower and each Participating Lender agree that the pro-
visions of the foregoing paragraphs (a) and (b) shall apply equally to each
Participating Lender in respect of its L/C Participating Interest in such
Letter of Credit, as if the references in such paragraphs and provisions
referred to, where applicable, such Participating Lender or, in the case of
paragraph (b), any corporation controlling such Participating Lender.
3.11.  Further Assurances.  Borrower hereby agrees, from time
to time, to do and perform any and all acts and to execute any and all fur-
ther instruments reasonably requested by the Issuing Lender more fully to
effect the purposes of this Agreement and the issuance of Letters of Credit
hereunder.
3.12.  Obligations Absolute.  The payment obligations of Bor-
rower under this Agreement with respect to the Letters of Credit shall be
unconditional and irrevocable and shall be paid strictly in accordance with
the terms of this Agreement under all circumstances, including, without
limitation, the following circumstances:
	(i)	the existence of any claim, set-off, defense or other
right which Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries may have at any time
against any beneficiary, or any transferee, of any Letter of Credit
(or any Persons for whom any such beneficiary or any such transferee
may be acting), the Issuing Lender, the Administrative Agent or any
Lender, or any other Person, whether in connection with this Agree-
ment, any Credit Document, the transactions contemplated herein, or
any unrelated transaction;
	(ii)	any statement or any other document presented under any
Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent or invalid or any
statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect, except
arising from the gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part
of the Issuing Lender;
	(iii)	payment by the Issuing Lender under any Letter of Credit
against presentation of a draft or certificate or other document
which does not comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit or is
insufficient in any respect, except where such payment constitutes
gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the Issuing
Lender; or
	(iv)	any other circumstances or happening whatsoever, whether
or not similar to any of the foregoing, except for any such circum-
stances or happening constituting gross negligence or willful miscon-
duct on the part of the Issuing Lender.
3.13.  Participations.  The obligation of each Revolving Credit
Lender to purchase participating interests pursuant to subsection 3.6 shall
be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circum-
stance, including, without limitation, (i) any set-off, counterclaim, re-
coupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the Is-
suing Lender, Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever; (ii)
the occurrence or continuance of an Event of Default; (iii) any adverse
change in the condition (financial or otherwise) of Borrower; (iv) any
breach of this Agreement by Borrower or any other Lender; or (v) any other
circumstance, happening or event whatsoever, whether or not similar to any
of the foregoing.
SECTION 4.	GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO LOANS
4.1.  Procedure for Borrowing.  (a)  Borrower may borrow under
the Commitments on any Business Day; provided that, with respect to any
borrowing, Borrower shall give the Administrative Agent irrevocable notice
in the form of Exhibit P (which notice must be received by the Administra-
tive Agent prior to (i) 1:00 p.m., New York City time, three Business Days
prior to the requested Borrowing Date if all or any part of the Loans are
to be Eurodollar Loans and (ii) 1:00 p.m. (or, with respect to Swing Line
Loans, 3:00 p.m.), New York City time, one Business Day prior to the re-
quested Borrowing Date (or, in the case of Swing Line Loans and, if the
Closing Date occurs on the date this Agreement is executed and delivered,
Loans made on the Closing Date, 3:00 p.m. on the requested Borrowing Date)
if the borrowing is to be solely of Alternate Base Rate Loans and specify-
ing (a) the amount of the borrowing, (b) whether such Loans are initially
to be Eurodollar Loans or Alternate Base Rate Loans or a combination
thereof, (c) if the borrowing is to be entirely or partly Eurodollar Loans,
the length of the Interest Period for such Eurodollar Loans and (d) whether
the Loan is a Tranche B Term Loan, a Swing Line Loan or Revolving Credit
Loan.  Upon receipt of such notice the Administrative Agent shall promptly
notify each affected Lender thereof.  Not later than 12:00 noon, New York
City time, on the Borrowing Date specified in such notice, each affected
Lender shall make available to the Administrative Agent at the office of
the Administrative Agent specified in subsection 11.2 (or at such other lo-
cation as the Administrative Agent may direct) an amount in immediately
available funds equal to the amount of the Loan to be made by such Lender
(except that proceeds of Swing Line Loans will be made available to Bor-
rower in accordance with subsection 3.4(a)).  Loan proceeds received by the
Administrative Agent hereunder shall promptly be made available to Borrower
by the Administrative Agent's crediting the account of Borrower, at the of-
fice of the Administrative Agent specified in subsection 11.2, with the ag-
gregate amount actually received by the Administrative Agent from the Lend-
ers and in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent.
(b)  Any borrowing of Eurodollar Loans hereunder shall be in
such amounts and be made pursuant to such elections so that, after giving
effect thereto, (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Eurodollar Loans
having the same Interest Period shall not be less than $1,000,000 or a
whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof, and (ii) no more than six In-
terest Periods shall be in effect at any one time.
4.2.  Conversion and Continuation Options.  (a)  Subject to
subsection 4.12, Borrower may elect from time to time to convert Eurodollar
Loans into Alternate Base Rate Loans by giving the Administrative Agent ir-
revocable notice of such election, to be received by the Administrative
Agent prior to 1:00 p.m., New York City time, at least three Business Days
prior to the proposed conversion date.  Borrower may elect from time to
time to convert all or a portion of the Alternate Base Rate Loans (other
than Swing Line Loans) then outstanding to Eurodollar Loans by giving the
Administrative Agent irrevocable notice of such election, to be received by
the Administrative Agent prior to 1:00 p.m., New York City time, at least
three Business Days prior to the proposed conversion date, specifying the
Interest Period selected therefor.  Such conversion shall be made on the
requested conversion date or, if such requested conversion date is not a
Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day; provided that no such
conversion shall be made when any Event of Default has occurred and is con-
tinuing and the Required Lenders have, by written notice to Borrower, de-
termined that such conversion is not appropriate.  Upon receipt of any no-
tice pursuant to this subsection 4.2, the Administrative Agent shall
promptly notify each affected Lender thereof.  All or any part of the out-
standing Loans (other than Swing Line Loans) may be converted as provided
herein; provided that partial conversions of Alternate Base Rate Loans
shall be in the aggregate principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple
of $100,000 in excess thereof and the aggregate principal amount of the re-
sulting Eurodollar Loans outstanding in respect of any one Interest Period
shall be at least $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess
thereof.
(b)  Any Eurodollar Loans may be continued as such upon the ex-
piration of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto by Bor-
rower giving notice to the Administrative Agent, in accordance with the ap-
plicable provisions of the term "Interest Period" set forth in subsection
1.1, of the length of the next Interest Period to be applicable to such
Loans; provided that no Eurodollar Loan may be continued as such (i) when
any Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Required Lend-
ers have, by written notice to Borrower, determined that such a continua-
tion is not appropriate, (ii) if, after giving effect thereto, subsection
4.1(b) would be contravened or (iii) after the date that is one month prior
to the Revolving Credit Termination Date (in the case of continuations of
Revolving Credit Loans) or the final Tranche B Installment Payment Date in
the case of the Term Loans.
4.3.  Changes of Commitment Amounts.  (a)  Borrower shall have
the right, upon not less than three Business Days' notice to the Adminis-
trative Agent, to terminate or from time to time to permanently reduce the
Revolving Credit Commitments, subject to the provisions of this subsection
4.3.  To the extent, if any, that the sum of the amount of the Revolving
Credit Loans, Swing Line Loans and L/C Obligations then outstanding and the
amounts available to be drawn under outstanding Letters of Credit exceeds
the amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments as then reduced, Borrower
shall be required to make a prepayment equal to such excess amount, the
proceeds of which shall be applied, first, to payment of the Swing Line
Loans then outstanding, second, to payment of the Revolving Credit Loans
then outstanding, third, to payment of any L/C Obligations then outstand-
ing, and fourth, to cash collateralize any outstanding Letters of Credit on
terms reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.  Any such termi-
nation of the Revolving Credit Commitments shall be accompanied by prepay-
ment in full of the Revolving Credit Loans, Swing Line Loans and L/C Obli-
gations then outstanding and by cash collateralization of any outstanding
Letters of Credit on terms reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative
Agent.  Upon termination of the Revolving Credit Commitments, any Letter of
Credit then outstanding that has been so cash collateralized shall no
longer be considered a "Letter of Credit" as defined in subsection 1.1 and
any L/C Participating Interests heretofore granted by the Issuing Lender to
the Lenders in such Letter of Credit shall be deemed terminated (subject to
automatic reinstatement in the event that such cash collateral is returned
and the Issuing Lender is not fully reimbursed for any such L/C Obliga-
tions) but the Letter of Credit fees payable under subsection 3.9 shall
continue to accrue to the Issuing Lender and the Participating Lenders (or,
in the event of any such automatic reinstatement, as provided in subsection
3.9) with respect to such Letter of Credit until the expiry thereof (pro-
vided that in lieu of paying a Standby or Commercial L/C fee, as the case
may be, equal to the Applicable Margin for Revolving Credit Loans which are
Eurodollar Loans per annum, Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent
an amount equal to 0.25% per annum).
(b)  In the case of termination of the Revolving Credit Commit-
ments, interest accrued on the amount of any prepayment relating thereto
and any unpaid commitment fee accrued hereunder shall be paid on the date
of such termination.  Any such partial reduction of the Revolving Credit
Commitments shall be in an amount of $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of
$100,000 in excess thereof and shall, in each case, reduce permanently the
amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments then in effect.
4.4.  Optional and Mandatory Prepayments; Repayments of Tranche
B Term Loans.  (a)  Subject to subsection 4.12, Borrower may at any time
and from time to time prepay Loans, in whole or in part, without premium or
penalty, by irrevocable written notice to the Administrative Agent by 12:00
noon, New York City time, (i) on the same Business Day in the case of Al-
ternate Base Rate Loans, or (ii) on the immediately preceding Business Day
in the case of Eurodollar Loans, specifying the date and amount of prepay-
ment and whether the prepayment is of Revolving Credit Loans or Tranche B
Term Loans.  Upon receipt of such notice the Administrative Agent shall
promptly notify each Lender thereof.  If such notice is given, Borrower
shall make such prepayment, and the payment amount specified in such notice
shall be due and payable, on the date specified therein.  Partial prepay-
ments of Tranche B Term Loans shall be in an aggregate principal amount
equal to the lesser of (a) (i) $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000
in excess thereof with respect to Eurodollar Loans or (ii) $500,000 or a
whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof with respect to Alternate Base
Rate Loans and (b) the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Tranche B
Term Loans or the aggregate unpaid principal amount of Tranche B Loans
maintained as Alternate Base Rate Loans (in the case of a prepayment of
such Tranche B Loans) or as Eurodollar Loans with a single Interest Period
(in the case of a prepayment of such Tranche B Loans).  Partial prepayments
of Revolving Credit Loans shall be in an aggregate principal amount equal
to the lesser of (a)(i) $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in ex-
cess thereof with respect to Eurodollar Loans or (ii) $500,000 or a whole
multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof with respect to Alternate Base Rate
Loans and (b) the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Revolving Credit
Loans (or the aggregate unpaid principal amount of Revolving Credit Loans
maintained as Alternate Base Rate Loans (in the case of a prepayment of
such Revolving Credit Loans) or as Eurodollar Loans with a single Interest
Period (in the case of a prepayment of such Revolving Credit Loans), as the
case may be.  Prepayments of the Tranche B Term Loans pursuant to this sub-
section 4.4(a) shall be applied in accordance with subsection 4.4(d) below.
(b)  So long as any Tranche B Term Loans are outstanding, if,
subsequent to the Closing Date:
	(i)	Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries shall is-
sue any Common Stock other than any to effect all or a portion of the
Notes Refinancing (it being understood that the issuance of Indebted-
ness or Preferred Stock convertible into, or exchangeable or exer-
ciseable for, Common Stock shall be governed by subsection 4.4(b)(ii)
and (iii) below), 50% of the Net Proceeds thereof shall be applied
within five Business Days of receipt thereof toward the prepayment of
the Tranche B Term Loans in accordance with subsection 4.4(d) below;
	(ii)	Borrower or any of the Restricted Subsidiaries shall in-
cur or permit the incurrence of any Indebtedness (other than Indebt-
edness permitted under subsection 8.1 (other than Indebtedness within
the meaning of subsection 8.1(k), which is covered by subsection
4.4(b)(iii))), 100% of the Net Proceeds thereof shall be applied
within five Business Days of receipt thereof toward the prepayment of
the Tranche B Term Loans in accordance with subsection 4.4(d) below;
	(iii)	Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries shall in-
cur or permit the incurrence of any Subordinated Indebtedness or is-
sue any Preferred Stock (excluding an incurrence of Subordinated In-
debtedness and/or issuance of Preferred Stock in connection with the
Notes Refinancing, to the extent the gross proceeds of such Notes Re-
financing do not exceed an aggregate principal amount of
$300,000,000), 75% of the Net Proceeds thereof shall be applied
within five Business Days of receipt thereof toward the prepayment of
the Tranche B Term Loans in accordance with subsection 4.4(d) below;
	(iv)	Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries shall re-
ceive Net Proceeds from any Asset Sale, 100% of such Net Proceeds
shall be applied within five Business Days of receipt thereof (for
the avoidance of doubt, after giving effect to the provisions for re-
investment set forth in the definition of "Net Proceeds" and subsec-
tions 8.5(h) and 8.5(l)) toward the prepayment of the Tranche B Term
Loans in accordance with subsection 4.4(d) below; provided that such
Net Proceeds need not be applied to the prepayment of Tranche B Term
Loans until the date that the aggregate amount of Net Proceeds re-
ceived by Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries from any As-
set Sale exceeds $1,000,000 (and has not yet been applied to the pre-
payment of Tranche B Term Loans hereunder); or until the amount of
such prepayment shall equal or exceed $100,000; provided further that
the Net Proceeds from such Asset Sale shall be deposited in the Col-
lateral Account as long as any Default or Event of Default is in ex-
istence;
	(v)	Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries shall re-
ceive proceeds from insurance recoveries in respect of any Destruc-
tion in excess of $500,000 (but in any event excluding proceeds of
business interruption insurance) or any proceeds or awards in respect
of Taking, 100% of the Net Proceeds thereof shall be applied within
five Business Days of receipt thereof (after giving effect to the
provisions for reinvestment set forth in the definition of "Net Pro-
ceeds") toward the prepayment of the Tranche B Term Loans in accor-
dance with subsection 4.4(d) below; provided, however, that cash pro-
ceeds of any Taking or Destruction shall be deposited in the Collat-
eral Account as long as any Default or Event of Default is in exis-
tence; and
	(vi)	If, for any fiscal year of Borrower commencing with its
fiscal year ending on December 31, 2002, there shall be Excess Cash
Flow for such fiscal year, 50% of such Excess Cash Flow (or 20% of
such Excess Cash Flow if at the date of making such prepayment (or
prior thereto) the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding
Tranche B Term Loans is less than $75,000,000) shall be applied not
later than 120 days after the end of such fiscal year toward prepay-
ment of the Tranche B Term Loans in accordance with subsection 4.4(d)
below.
(c)  The Tranche B Term Loans shall be repaid in consecutive
quarterly installments on the dates set forth below (each such day, a
"Tranche B Installment Payment Date"), commencing on March 31, 2002, in an
aggregate amount equal to the amount specified for each such Tranche B In-
stallment Payment Date (in each case subject to reduction as described in
subsections 4.4(a), (b) and (d)).

Tranche B Installment Payment Date
Installment Amount

March 31, 2002
$2,500,000
June 30, 2002
$7,500,000
September 30, 2002
$7,500,000
December 31, 2002
$7,500,000
March 31, 2003
$8,750,000
June 30, 2003
$8,750,000
September 30, 2003
$8,750,000
December 31, 2003
$8,750,000
March 31, 2004
$8,750,000
June 30, 2004
$8,750,000
September 30, 2004
$8,750,000
December 31, 2004
$8,750,000
March 31, 2005
$8,750,000
June 30, 2005
$8,750,000
September 30, 2005
$8,750,000
December 31, 2005
$8,750,000
March 31, 2006
$8,750,000
June 30, 2006
$11,250,000

; provided, that if the Notes Refinancing has not been consummated on or
before the Notes Refinancing Date, the aggregate principal amount of the
Tranche B Term Loans that have not been repaid on or before the Notes Refi-
nancing Date shall become immediately due and payable on the Maturity Date.
Amounts repaid on account of the Tranche B Term Loans pursuant
to this subsection or otherwise may not be reborrowed.  Accrued interest on
the amount of any prepayments through the date of such prepayment shall be
paid on the Interest Payment Date next succeeding the date of any partial
prepayment and on the date of such prepayment in the case of a prepayment
in full of the Tranche B Term Loans.
(d)  Prepayments of Tranche B Terms Loans pursuant to subsec-
tion 4.4(a) and 4.4(b) shall be applied to the remaining installments of
principal in direct order of maturity.  Except as otherwise may be directed
by Borrower, any prepayment of Loans pursuant to this subsection 4.4 shall
be applied, first, to any Alternate Base Rate Loans then outstanding and
the balance of such prepayment, if any, to the Eurodollar Loans then out-
standing; provided that prepayments of Eurodollar Loans, if not on the last
day of the Interest Period with respect thereto, shall, at the option of
Borrower, be prepaid subject to the provisions of subsection 4.12 or the
amount of such prepayment (after application to any Alternate Base Rate
Loans) shall be deposited with the Administrative Agent as cash collateral
for the Loans on terms reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent
and thereafter shall be applied in the order of the Interest Periods next
ending most closely to the date such prepayment is required to be made and
on the last day of each such Interest Period.  After such application, un-
less an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing (in which
case such interest shall be held as cash collateral or applied by the Ad-
ministrative Agent to any Obligations then due and payable), any remaining
interest earned on such cash collateral shall be paid to Borrower.
4.5.  Interest Rates and Payment Dates.  (a)  Eurodollar Loans
shall bear interest (calculated on the basis of the actual number of days
elapsed over a year of 360 days) for each day during each Interest Period
applicable thereto, commencing on (and including) the first day of such In-
terest Period to, but excluding, the last day of such Interest Period, on
the unpaid principal amount thereof at a rate per annum equal to the Euro-
dollar Rate determined for such Interest Period plus the Applicable Margin.
(b)  Alternate Base Rate Loans shall bear interest (calculated
on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over a year of 365 days)
for the period from and including the date such Loans are made to, but ex-
cluding, the maturity date thereof, or to, but excluding, the conversion
date if such Loans are earlier converted into Eurodollar Loans on the un-
paid principal amount thereof at a rate per annum equal to the Alternate
Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
(c)  Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event
of Default, at the request of the Required Lenders, the Loans shall, with-
out limiting the rights of the Lenders under Section 9, bear interest
(which shall be payable on demand) at the higher of (a) a rate per annum
(computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over a year of
365 days) equal to the Alternate Base Rate and the Applicable Margin plus
2% and (b) the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan pursuant to this sub-
section 4.5 and the Applicable Margin plus 2%.
(d)  Except as otherwise expressly provided for in this subsec-
tion 4.5, interest shall be payable in arrears (a) for Eurodollar Loans, at
the end of each Interest Period (or, if such Interest Period is greater
than three months, quarterly) and on the Maturity Date, and (b) for Alter-
nate Base Rate Loans, quarterly in arrears and on the Maturity Date.
4.6.  Computation of Interest and Fees.  (a)  Interest in re-
spect of Alternate Base Rate Loans shall be calculated on the basis of the
actual number of days elapsed over a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case
may be.  Interest in respect of Eurodollar Loans (and all fees hereunder)
shall be calculated on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over
a year of 360 days.  The Administrative Agent shall as soon as practicable
notify Borrower and the Lenders of each determination of a Eurodollar Rate.
Any change in the interest rate on a Loan resulting from a change in the
Alternate Base Rate or the Eurocurrency Reserve Requirements shall become
effective as of the opening of business on the day on which such change in
the Alternate Base Rate is announced or such change in the Eurocurrency Re-
serve Requirements becomes effective, as the case may be.  The Administra-
tive Agent shall as soon as practicable notify Borrower and the Lenders of
the effective date and the amount of each such change.
(b)  Each determination of an interest rate by the Administra-
tive Agent pursuant to any provision of this Agreement shall be conclusive
and binding on Borrower and the Lenders in the absence of manifest error.
The Administrative Agent shall, at the request of Borrower or any Lender,
deliver to Borrower or such Lender a statement showing the quotations used
by the Administrative Agent in determining the Eurodollar Rate.
4.7.  Certain Fees.  Borrower agrees to pay to the Administra-
tive Agent, for its own account, a non-refundable agent's fee in an amount
previously agreed to with the Administrative Agent, payable annually in ad-
vance on the Closing Date and on each anniversary thereof unless all Loans
have been (or are on such date) repaid and all Commitments hereunder have
been (or are on such date) terminated.
4.8.  Inability to Determine Interest Rate.  In the event that
the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders shall have determined
(which determination shall be conclusive and binding upon Borrower) that
(a) by reason of circumstances affecting the interbank eurodollar market,
adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Eurodollar
Rate for any Interest Period with respect to (i) proposed Loans that Bor-
rower has requested be made as Eurodollar Loans, (ii) any Eurodollar Loans
that will result from the requested conversion of all or part of the Alter-
nate Base Rate Loans into Eurodollar Loans or (iii) the continuation of any
Eurodollar Loan as such for an additional Interest Period, or (b) dollar
deposits in the relevant amount and for the relevant period with respect to
any such Eurodollar Loan are not generally available to the Lenders in
their respective Eurodollar Lending Offices' interbank eurodollar markets,
the Administrative Agent shall forthwith give telecopy notice of such de-
termination, confirmed in writing, to Borrower and the Lenders at least one
day prior to, as the case may be, the requested Borrowing Date, the conver-
sion date or the last day of such Interest Period.  If such notice is given
(i) any requested Eurodollar Loans shall be made as Alternate Base Rate
Loans, (ii) any Alternate Base Rate Loans that were to have been converted
to Eurodollar Loans shall be continued as Alternate Base Rate Loans, and
(iii) any outstanding Eurodollar Loans shall be converted on the last day
of the then current Interest Period applicable thereto into Alternate Base
Rate Loans.  Until such notice has been withdrawn by the Administrative
Agent, no further Eurodollar Loans shall be made and no Alternate Base Rate
Loans shall be converted to Eurodollar Loans.
4.9.  Pro Rata Treatment and Payments.  (a)  Except to the ex-
tent otherwise provided herein, each borrowing of Loans by Borrower from
the Lenders and any reduction of the Commitments of the Lenders hereunder
shall be made pro rata according to the relevant Commitment Percentages of
the Lenders with respect to the Loans borrowed or the Commitments to be re-
duced.
(b)  Whenever any payment received by the Administrative Agent
under this Agreement or any Note or any other Credit Document is insuffi-
cient to pay in full all amounts then due and payable to the Administrative
Agent and the Lenders under this Agreement, such payment shall be distrib-
uted by the Administrative Agent and applied by the Administrative Agent
and the Lenders in the following order:  first, to the payment of fees and
expenses due and payable to the Administrative Agent under and in connec-
tion with this Agreement and the other Credit Documents; second, to the
payment of all expenses due and payable under subsection 11.5, ratably
among the Lenders in accordance with the aggregate amount of such payments
owed to each such Lender; third, to the payment of fees due and payable un-
der subsections 3.2 and 3.9, ratably among the Lenders in accordance with
the Commitment Percentage of each Lender of the Commitment for which such
payment is owed and, in the case of the Issuing Lender, the amount retained
by the Issuing Lender for its own account pursuant to subsection 3.9;
fourth, to the payment of interest then due and payable on the Loans and
the L/C Obligations ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of in-
terest owed to each such Lender; and fifth, to the payment of the principal
amount of the Loans and the L/C Obligations which is then due and payable
ratably among the Lenders in accordance with the aggregate principal amount
owed to each such Lender.
(c)  If any Lender (a "Non-Funding Lender") has (x) failed to
make a Revolving Credit Loan required to be made by it hereunder, and the
Administrative Agent has determined that such Lender is not likely to make
such Revolving Credit Loan or (y) given notice to Borrower or the Adminis-
trative Agent that it will not make, or that it has disaffirmed or repudi-
ated any obligation to make, any Revolving Credit Loan, in each case by
reason of the provisions of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and
Enforcement Act of 1989, as amended, or otherwise, (i) any payment made on
account of the principal of the Revolving Credit Loans outstanding shall be
made as follows:
(A)	in the case of any such payment made on any date when and
to the extent that in the determination of the Administrative Agent
Borrower would be able under the terms and conditions hereof to
reborrow the amount of such payment under the Commitments and to sat-
isfy any applicable conditions precedent set forth in Section 6 to
such reborrowing, such payment shall be made on account of the out-
standing Revolving Credit Loans held by the Lenders other than the
Non-Funding Lender pro rata according to the respective outstanding
principal amounts of the Revolving Credit Loans of such Lenders; and
(B)	otherwise, such payment shall be made on account of the
outstanding Revolving Credit Loans held by the Lenders pro rata ac-
cording to the respective outstanding principal amounts of such Re-
volving Credit Loans; and
(ii)  any payment made on account of interest on the Revolving Credit Loans
shall be made pro rata according to the respective amounts of accrued and
unpaid interest due and payable on the Revolving Credit Loans with respect
to which such payment is being made.  Borrower agrees to give the Adminis-
trative Agent such assistance in making any determination pursuant to sub-
paragraph (i)(A) of this paragraph (c) as the Administrative Agent may rea-
sonably request.  Any such determination by the Administrative Agent shall
be conclusive and binding on the Lenders.
(d)  All payments (including prepayments) to be made by Bor-
rower on account of principal, interest and fees shall be made without set-
off, counterclaim or other defense and shall be made to the Administrative
Agent, for the account of the Lenders at the Administrative Agent's office
located at Stamford, Connecticut, in lawful money of the United States and
in immediately available funds.  The Administrative Agent shall promptly
distribute such payments in accordance with the provisions of subsection
4.9(b) upon receipt in like funds as received.  If any payment hereunder
(other than payments on Eurodollar Loans) would become due and payable on a
day other than a Business Day, such payment shall become due and payable on
the next succeeding Business Day and, with respect to payments of princi-
pal, interest thereon shall be payable at the then applicable rate during
such extension.  If any payment on a Eurodollar Loan becomes due and pay-
able on a day other than a Business Day, the maturity thereof shall be ex-
tended to the next succeeding Business Day (and with respect to payments of
principal, interest thereon shall be payable at the then applicable rate
during such extension), unless the result of such extension would be to ex-
tend such payment into another calendar month in which event such payment
shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day.
(e)  Unless the Administrative Agent shall have been notified
in writing by any Lender prior to a borrowing that such Lender will not
make the amount which would constitute its Commitment Percentage of such
borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, the Administrative Agent
may assume that such Lender is making such amount available to the Adminis-
trative Agent in accordance with subsection 4.1 and the Administrative
Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to Borrower a
corresponding amount.  If such amount is not made available to the Adminis-
trative Agent by the required time on the Borrowing Date therefor, such
Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent, on demand, such amount with
interest thereon at a rate equal to the daily average Federal Funds Rate
for the period until such Lender makes such amount immediately available to
the Administrative Agent.  A certificate of the Administrative Agent sub-
mitted to any Lender with respect to any amounts owing under this subsec-
tion 4.9(e) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.  If such Lender's
Commitment Percentage of such borrowing is not in fact made available to
the Administrative Agent by such Lender within three Business Days of such
Borrowing Date, the Administrative Agent shall also be entitled to recover
such amount with interest thereon at the rate per annum applicable to the
Loans comprising such borrowing, on demand, from Borrower, without preju-
dice to any rights which any such Borrower or the Administrative Agent may
have against such Lender hereunder.  Nothing contained in this subsection
4.9 shall relieve any Lender which has failed to make available its ratable
portion of any borrowing hereunder from its obligation to do so in accor-
dance with the terms hereof.
(f)  The failure of any Lender to make the Loan to be made by
it on any Borrowing Date shall not relieve any other Lender of its obliga-
tion, if any, hereunder to make its Loan on such Borrowing Date, but no
Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the
Loan to be made by such other Lender on such Borrowing Date.
(g)  All payments and optional prepayments (other than prepay-
ments as set forth in subsection 4.11 with respect to increased costs) of
Eurodollar Loans hereunder shall be in such amounts and be made pursuant to
such elections so that, after giving effect thereto, the aggregate princi-
pal amount of all Eurodollar Loans with the same Interest Period shall not
be less than $1,000,000 a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof.
4.10.  Illegality.  Notwithstanding any other provision herein,
if (i) any Change in Law occurring after the date that any lender becomes a
Lender party to this Agreement, shall make it unlawful for such Lender to
make or maintain Eurodollar Loans as contemplated by this Agreement, the
commitment of such Lender hereunder to make Eurodollar Loans or to convert
all or a portion of Alternate Base Rate Loans into Eurodollar Loans shall
forthwith be suspended until such time, if any, as such illegality shall no
longer exist and such Lender's Loans then outstanding as Eurodollar Loans,
if any, shall be converted automatically to Alternate Base Rate Loans for
the duration of the respective Interest Periods (or, if permitted by appli-
cable law, at the end of such Interest Periods) and all payments of princi-
pal which would otherwise be applied to such Eurodollar Loans shall be ap-
plied instead to such Lender's Alternate Base Rate Loans.  Borrower hereby
agrees to pay any Lender, promptly upon its demand, any amounts payable
pursuant to subsection 4.12 in connection with any conversion in accordance
with this subsection 4.10 (such Lender's notice of such costs, as certified
in reasonable detail as to such amounts to Borrower through the Administra-
tive Agent, to be conclusive absent manifest error).
4.11.  Requirements of Law.  (a)  In the event that any Change
in Law or compliance by any Lender with any request or directive (whether
or not having the force of law) from any central bank or other Governmental
Authority occurring after the date that any lender becomes a Lender party
to this Agreement:
	(i)	does or shall subject any such Lender or its Eurodollar
Lending Office to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this
Agreement, any Note or any Eurodollar Loans made by it, or change the
basis of taxation of payments to such Lender or its Eurodollar Lend-
ing Office of principal, the commitment fee, interest or any other
amount payable hereunder (except for (x) net income and franchise
taxes imposed on the net income of such Lender or its Eurodollar
Lending Office by the United States or any political subdivision
thereof or therein, by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such
Lender is organized or any political subdivision or taxing authority
thereof or therein, or by any jurisdiction in which such Lender's
Eurodollar Lending Office is located or any political subdivision or
taxing authority thereof or therein, including changes in the rate of
tax on the overall net income of such Lender or such Eurodollar Lend-
ing Office, and (y) taxes resulting from the substitution of any such
system by another system of taxation; provided that the taxes payable
by Lenders subject to such other system of taxation are not generally
charged to borrowers from such Lenders having loans or advances bear-
ing interest at a rate similar to the Eurodollar Rate);
	(ii)	does or shall impose, modify or hold applicable any re-
serve, special deposit, compulsory loan or similar requirement
against assets held by, or deposits or other liabilities in or for
the account of, advances or loans by, or other credit extended by, or
any other acquisition of funds by, any office of such Lender which
are not otherwise included in the determination of the Eurodollar
Rate; or
	(iii)	does or shall impose on such Lender any other condition
which is applicable to lenders generally;
and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to such
Lender or its Eurodollar Lending Office of making, converting, renewing or
maintaining advances or extensions of credit or to reduce any amount re-
ceivable hereunder, in each case, in respect of its Eurodollar Loans, then,
in any such case, Borrower shall promptly pay such Lender, within 15 days
after its demand, any additional amounts necessary to compensate such
Lender for such additional cost or reduced amount receivable which such
Lender deems to be material as determined by such Lender with respect to
such Eurodollar Loans, together with interest on each such amount from the
date due until payment in full thereof at a rate per annum equal to the Al-
ternate Base Rate plus 1%.
(b)  In the event that any Change in Law occurring after the
date that any lender becomes a Lender party to this Agreement with respect
to any such Lender shall, in the opinion of such Lender, require that any
Commitment of such Lender be treated as an asset or otherwise be included
for purposes of calculating the appropriate amount of capital to be main-
tained by such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender, and such
Change in Law shall have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such
Lender's or such corporation's capital, as the case may be, as a conse-
quence of such Lender's obligations hereunder to a level below that which
such Lender or such corporation, as the case may be, could have achieved
but for such Change in Law (taking into account such Lender's or such cor-
poration's policies, as the case may be, with respect to capital adequacy)
by an amount deemed by such Lender to be material, then from time to time
following notice by such Lender to Borrower of such Change in Law as pro-
vided in paragraph (c) of this subsection 4.11, within 15 days after demand
by such Lender, Borrower shall pay to such Lender such additional amount or
amounts as will compensate such Lender or such corporation on an after-tax
basis, as the case may be, for such reduction.
(c)  Borrower shall not be required to make any payments to any
Lender for any additional amounts pursuant to this subsection 4.11 unless
such Lender has given written notice to Borrower, through the Administra-
tive Agent, of its intent to request such payments prior to or within 60
days after the date on which such Lender became entitled to claim such
amounts.  If any Lender has notified Borrower through the Administrative
Agent of any increased costs pursuant to paragraph (a) of this subsection
4.11, Borrower at any time thereafter may, upon at least three Business
Days' notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the
Lenders thereof), and subject to subsection 4.12, prepay (or convert into
Alternate Base Rate Loans) all (but not a part) of the Eurodollar Loans of
the applicable Lender then outstanding.  Each Lender agrees that, upon the
occurrence of any event giving rise to the operation of paragraph (a) of
this subsection 4.11 with respect to such Lender, it will, if requested by
Borrower and to the extent permitted by law or by the relevant Governmental
Authority, endeavor in good faith to avoid or minimize the increase in
costs or reduction in payments resulting from such event (including, with-
out limitation, endeavoring to change its Eurodollar Lending Office); pro-
vided that such avoidance or minimization can be made in such a manner that
such Lender, in its sole determination, suffers no economic, legal or regu-
latory disadvantage.  If any Lender requests compensation from any Borrower
under this subsection 4.11, Borrower may, by notice to such Lender (with a
copy to the Administrative Agent), suspend the obligation of such Lender
thereafter to make or continue Loans of the Type with respect to which such
compensation is requested, or to convert Loans of any other Type into Loans
of such Type, until the Requirement of Law giving rise to such request
ceases to be in effect; provided that such suspension shall not affect the
right of such Lender to receive the compensation so requested.
(d)  (i)  All payments by Borrower to or for the account of any
Lender or Administrative Agent hereunder or under any Note shall be made
without setoff, counterclaim or other defense and free and clear of, and
without deduction or withholding for, any and all Taxes.  If Borrower shall
be required by law to deduct or withhold any Taxes from or in respect of
any sum payable hereunder to any Lender or Administrative Agent, (a) the
sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all re-
quired deductions or withholdings (including deductions or withholdings ap-
plicable to additional sums payable under this subsection 4.11(d)) such
Lender or Administrative Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount
equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions or withhold-
ings been made, (b) Borrower shall make such deductions or withholdings,
(c) Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted or withheld to the relevant
authority in accordance with applicable law and (d) Borrower shall furnish
to Administrative Agent the original copy of a receipt evidencing payment
thereof within 30 days after such payment is made.
	(ii)	In addition, Borrower hereby agrees to pay any present or
future stamp or documentary taxes and any other excise or property taxes,
charges or similar levies which arise from any payment made hereunder or
under any Note or from the execution, delivery or registration of, or oth-
erwise with respect to, this Agreement or any Note ("Other Taxes").
	(iii)	Borrower hereby agrees to indemnify Administrative Agent
and each Lender for the full amount of Taxes or Other Taxes (including,
without limitation, any Taxes or Other Taxes imposed on amounts payable un-
der this subsection 4.11(d)) paid by Administrative Agent or such Lender
and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising
therefrom or with respect thereto.  Payments due under this indemnification
shall be made within 30 days of the date Administrative Agent or such
Lender makes demand therefor.
	(iv)	Each Lender (and in case of a Participant or an Assignee
on the date it becomes a Participant or Lender) that is not a United States
Person (as defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code) for federal income
tax purposes either (1) in the case of a Participant or Lender that is a
"bank" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (i) agrees
to furnish to Borrower, with a copy to the Administrative Agent, either
U.S. Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI or U.S. Internal Revenue Service
Form W-8BEN (or successor form) (wherein such Participant or Lender claims
entitlement at the Closing Date (or, in the case of a Participant or an As-
signee, on the date it becomes a Participant or Lender, as the case may be)
to an exemption from U.S. federal withholding tax on all interest payments
hereunder (or, in the case of an assignee Lender, at least as extensive as
the assignor Lender)) and (ii) agrees (for the benefit of Borrower and the
Administrative Agent), to the extent it may lawfully do so at such times,
upon reasonable request by Borrower or the Administrative Agent, to provide
Borrower, with a copy to the Administrative Agent, a new Form W-8ECI or
Form W-8BEN (or successor form) upon the expiration or obsolescence of any
previously delivered form and comparable statements in accordance with ap-
plicable U.S. laws and regulations duly executed and completed by such Par-
ticipant or Lender that establishes a complete exemption from, or a reduc-
tion in, U.S. federal withholding tax on any interest payment hereunder or
(2) in the case of a Participant or Lender that is not a "bank" within the
meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (i) agrees to furnish to Bor-
rower, with a copy to the Administrative Agent, (a) a Non-Bank Certificate
and (b) two accurate and complete original signed copies of Internal Reve-
nue Service Form W-8BEN (or successor form), certifying to such Partici-
pant's or Lender's legal entitlement at the Closing Date (or, in the case
of a Participant or an Assignee, on the date it becomes a Participant or
Lender, as the case may be) to an exemption from U.S. withholding tax under
the provisions of Section 881(c) of the Code with respect to all interest
payments to be made under this Agreement (or, in the case of an assignee
Lender, at least as extensive as the assignor Lender), and (ii) agrees, to
the extent legally entitled to do so, upon reasonable request by Borrower
or the Administrative Agent, to provide to Borrower (for the benefit of
Borrower and the Administrative Agent) such other forms as may be required
in order to establish the legal entitlement of such Participant or Lender
to an exemption from, or reduction in, withholding with respect to payments
under this Agreement.  Notwithstanding any provision of this subsection
4.11 or subsection 4.9(d) to the contrary, Borrower shall have no obliga-
tion to pay any amount to or for the account of any Participant or Lender
(or the Eurodollar Lending Office of any Participant or Lender) on account
of any Taxes pursuant to this subsection 4.11, to the extent that such
amount results from the failure of any Participant or Lender to comply with
its obligations pursuant to this subsection 4.11(d)(iv).
(e)  A certificate in reasonable detail as to any amounts sub-
mitted by such Lender, through the Administrative Agent, to Borrower, shall
be conclusive in the absence of manifest error.  The covenants contained in
this subsection 4.11 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and
repayment of the Loans.
4.12.  Indemnity.  Borrower agrees to indemnify each Lender and
to hold such Lender harmless from any loss or expense (but (x) without du-
plication of any amounts payable as default interest and (y) excluding any
loss of anticipated profits) which such Lender may sustain or incur as a
consequence of (a) default by Borrower in making a borrowing after Borrower
has given a notice in accordance with subsection 4.1 or in making a conver-
sion of Alternate Base Rate Loans to Eurodollar Loans or in continuing
Eurodollar Loans as such, in either case, after Borrower has given notice
in accordance with subsection 4.2, (b) default by Borrower in making any
prepayment after Borrower has given a notice in accordance with subsection
4.4 or (c) a payment or prepayment of a Eurodollar Loan or conversion (in-
cluding without limitation, as a result of subsection 4.4 and/or a conver-
sion pursuant to subsection 4.10) of any Eurodollar Loan into an Alternate
Base Rate Loan, in either case on a day which is not the last day of an In-
terest Period with respect thereto, including, but not limited to, any such
loss or expense arising from interest or fees payable by such Lender to
lenders of funds obtained by it in order to maintain its Eurodollar Loans
hereunder (but excluding loss of profit).  This covenant shall survive ter-
mination of this Agreement and repayment of the Loans.
4.13.  Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt.  (a)  Borrower
hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the Administrative Agent for the
account of each Lender (i) the then unpaid principal amount of each Revolv-
ing Credit Loan of such Lender on the Revolving Credit Termination Date,
(ii) the principal amount of the Tranche B Term Loan of such Lender, in in-
stallments, payable on each Tranche B Installment Payment Date, in accor-
dance with subsection 4.4(c) (or the then unpaid principal amount of such
Tranche B Term Loan on the date that the Tranche B Term Loans become due
and payable pursuant to Section 9 or has been reduced in accordance with
subsection 4.4(d)), and (iii) the then unpaid principal amount of the Swing
Line Loans of the Swing Line Lender on the Revolving Credit Termination
Date.  Borrower hereby further agrees to pay interest on the unpaid princi-
pal amount of the Loans from time to time outstanding from the date hereof
until payment in full thereof at the rates per annum and on the dates set
forth in subsection 4.4.
(b)  Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual
practice an account or accounts evidencing indebtedness of Borrower to such
Lender resulting from each Loan of such Lender from time to time, including
the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from
time to time under this Agreement.
(c)  The Administrative Agent shall maintain the Register pur-
suant to subsection 11.6(d), and a subaccount therein for each Lender, in
which shall be recorded (i) the amount of each Revolving Credit Loan and
Tranche B Term Loan made hereunder, the Type thereof and each Interest Pe-
riod applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due
and payable or to become due and payable from Borrower to each Lender
hereunder and (iii) both the amount of any sum received by the Administra-
tive Agent hereunder from Borrower and each Lender's share thereof.
(d)  The entries made in the Register and the accounts of each
Lender maintained pursuant to subsection 4.13(b) shall, to the extent per-
mitted by applicable law, be prima facie evidence of the existence and
amounts of the obligations of Borrower therein recorded; provided that the
failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain the Register
or any such account, or any error therein, shall not in any manner affect
the obligation of Borrower to repay (with applicable interest) the Loans
made to Borrower by such Lender or to repay any other obligations in accor-
dance with the terms of this Agreement.
(e)  Borrower agrees that, upon the request to the Administra-
tive Agent by any Lender, Borrower will execute and deliver to such Lender
(i) a promissory note of Borrower evidencing the Revolving Credit Loans of
such Lender, substantially in the form of Exhibit A with appropriate inser-
tions as to date and principal amount (a "Revolving Credit Note"), (ii) a
promissory note of such Borrower evidencing the Tranche B Term Loan of such
Lender, substantially in the form of Exhibit B with appropriate insertions
as to date and principal amount (a "Tranche B Term Note"), and/or (iii) in
the case of the Swing Line Lender, a promissory note of Borrower evidencing
the Swing Line Loans of the Swing Line Lender, substantially in the form of
Exhibit C with appropriate insertions as to date and principal amount (the
"Swing Line Note").
4.14.  Replacement of Lenders.  In the event any Lender or the
Issuing Lender is a Non-Funding Lender, exercises its rights pursuant to
subsection 4.10 or requests payments pursuant to subsections 3.10 or 4.11,
Borrower may require, at Borrower's expense (including payment of any proc-
essing fees under subsection 11.6(e)) and subject to subsection 4.12, such
Lender or the Issuing Lender to assign, at par plus accrued interest and
fees, without recourse (in accordance with subsection 11.6) all of its in-
terests, rights and obligations hereunder (including all of its Commitments
and the Loans and other amounts at the time owing to it hereunder and its
Notes and its interest in the Letters of Credit) to a bank, financial in-
stitution or other entity specified by Borrower; provided that (i) such as-
signment shall not conflict with or violate any law, rule or regulation or
order of any court or other Governmental Authority, (ii) Borrower shall
have received the written consent of the Administrative Agent, which con-
sent shall not unreasonably be withheld, to such assignment, (iii) Borrower
shall have paid to the assigning Lender or the Issuing Lender all monies
other than principal, interest and fees accrued and owing hereunder to it
(including pursuant to subsections 3.10, 4.10, 4.11 and 4.12) and (iv) in
the case of a required assignment by the Issuing Lender, the Letters of
Credit shall be canceled and returned to the Issuing Lender.
SECTION 5.	REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
In order to induce the Lenders to enter into this Agreement and
to make the Loans and to induce the Issuing Lender to issue, and the Par-
ticipating Lenders to participate in, the Letters of Credit, Borrower
hereby represents and warrants to each Lender and the Administrative Agent
as of the Closing Date and as of the date of the making of any extension of
credit hereunder:
5.1.  Financial Condition.  (a)  The audited consolidated bal-
ance sheet of Borrower as of December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000, and the re-
lated consolidated income statements and statements of cash flows and
stockholders' equity for the fiscal years ended on such dates, reported on
by and accompanied by an unqualified report from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
relating thereto, have been prepared by Borrower in accordance with GAAP
and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition of
Borrower as at such dates, and the results of operations and cash flows of
Borrower for the fiscal years then ended.
(b)  The unaudited consolidated balance sheet of Borrower and
related consolidated income statements and statements of stockholders' eq-
uity and cash flows for the nine month period ended September 30, 2001 have
been prepared by Borrower in accordance with the same accounting principles
and procedures employed in connection with the financial statements de-
scribed in the preceding clause (a) and presents fairly, in all material
respects, the financial condition of Borrower at such date and the results
of operations and cash flow of Borrower for such nine month period, except
for the absence of footnotes and normal year-end adjustments.
(c)  Except as set forth in Schedule 5.1(c), in the financial
statements or other information referred to in subsections 5.1(a) and (b),
as of the Closing Date, there are no material liabilities of Borrower or
any of its Subsidiaries of any kind (including, without limitation, li-
abilities for taxes, or any long-term leases or unusual forward or long-
term commitments, including any interest rate or foreign currency swap or
exchange transaction or other obligation in respect of derivatives) re-
quired to be set forth on a balance sheet or in the notes thereto prepared
in accordance with GAAP, whether accrued, contingent, absolute, determined,
determinable or otherwise, and there is no existing condition, situation or
set of circumstances which is reasonably likely to result in such a liabil-
ity.
5.2.  No Change.  Since December 31, 2000, there has been no
change, development or event which, individually or when taken together
with all other circumstances, changes or events, has had, or would reasona-
bly be expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect.
5.3.  Existence; Compliance with Law.  Except as disclosed in
Schedule 5.3, each of Borrower and its Subsidiaries (a) is duly organized
and validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorpora-
tion, (b) has full power and authority and possesses all governmental fran-
chises, licenses, permits, authorizations and approvals necessary to enable
it to use its corporate name and to own, lease or otherwise hold its prop-
erties and assets and to carry on its business as presently conducted other
than such franchises, licenses, permits, authorizations and approvals the
lack of which, individually or in the aggregate, would not have a Material
Adverse Effect, (c) is duly qualified and in good standing (to the extent
such concept is applicable in the applicable jurisdiction) to do business
in each jurisdiction in which the nature of its business or the ownership,
leasing or holding of its properties makes such qualification necessary,
except such jurisdictions where the failure so to qualify, individually or
in the aggregate, would not have a Material Adverse Effect and (d) is in
compliance with all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, orders,
permits and regulations of any Governmental Authority or instrumentality,
domestic or foreign (including, without limitation, those related to Haz-
ardous Materials and substances), except where noncompliance individually
or in the aggregate, would not have a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither
Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries has received any written communication
from a Governmental Authority that alleges that Borrower or any of its Sub-
sidiaries is not in compliance with federal, state, local or foreign laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations except to the extent such noncompliance,
individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have
a Material Adverse Effect.
5.4.  Power; Authorization.  Each of Borrower and its Re-
stricted Subsidiaries has the power and authority to execute, deliver and
perform each of the Credit Documents to which it is a party, and Borrower
has the power and authority and legal right to borrow hereunder and to have
Letters of Credit issued for its account hereunder.  Each of Borrower and
its Restricted Subsidiaries has taken all necessary action to authorize the
execution, delivery and performance of each of the Credit Documents to
which it is or will be a party and Borrower has taken all necessary action
to authorize the borrowings hereunder and the issuance of Letters of Credit
for its account hereunder.  No consent or authorization of, or filing with,
any Person (including, without limitation, any Governmental Authority) is
required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by Bor-
rower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, or for the validity or en-
forceability in accordance with its terms against Borrower or any of its
Restricted Subsidiaries, of any Credit Document except for (i) consents,
authorizations and filings which have been obtained or made and are in full
force and effect, (ii) such consents, authorizations and filings which the
failure to obtain or perform, individually or in the aggregate, would not
have a Material Adverse Effect and (iii) such filings as are necessary to
perfect the Liens of the Lenders created pursuant to this Agreement and the
Security Documents.
5.5.  Enforceable Obligations.  This Agreement has been, and
each of the other Credit Documents and any other agreement to be entered
into by any Credit Party pursuant to each of the Transaction Documents will
be, duly executed and delivered on behalf of each Credit Party that is
party thereto.  This Agreement and each of the Transaction Documents each
constitute, and each of the other Credit Documents and any other agreement
to be entered into by any Credit Party pursuant to the Transaction Docu-
ments will constitute upon execution and delivery thereof, the legal, valid
and binding obligation of each Credit Party that is party thereto, and is
or will be enforceable against each Credit Party that is party thereto in
accordance with its terms, except as may be limited by applicable bank-
ruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, or similar laws affecting
creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity (regardless
of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law).
5.6.  No Legal Bar.  The execution, delivery and performance of
each Credit Document and the incurrence or issuance of and use of the pro-
ceeds of the Loans and of drawings under the Letters of Credit and the
Transactions (a) will not violate any Requirement of Law or any Contractual
Obligation applicable to or binding upon Borrower or any of its Subsidiar-
ies or any of their respective properties or assets, in any manner which,
individually or in the aggregate, would have a Material Adverse Effect, and
(b) will not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any of its
properties or assets pursuant to any Requirement of Law applicable to it,
as the case may be, or any of its Contractual Obligations, except for the
Liens arising under the Security Documents and Permitted Liens.
5.7.  No Material Litigation.  Except as disclosed in Schedule
5.7, no lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations are pending or, to
the best knowledge of Borrower, threatened against or affecting Borrower or
any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties, assets, op-
erations or businesses which have had, or are reasonably likely to have, a
Material Adverse Effect.
5.8.  Investment Company Act.  Neither Borrower nor any Sub-
sidiary of Borrower is an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by
an "investment company" (as each of the quoted terms is defined or used in
the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended).
5.9.  Federal Regulation.  The extensions of credit hereunder
will not be used for "buying" or "carrying" any Margin Stock within the re-
spective meanings of each of the quoted terms under Regulation U as now and
from time to time hereafter in effect or for any purpose that violates the
provisions of the Regulations of the Board.  If requested by any Lender or
the Administrative Agent, Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent
and each Lender a statement to the foregoing effect in conformity with the
requirements of FR Form G-3 or FR Form U-1, as applicable, referred to in
Regulation U.  Following application of the proceeds of each extension of
credit hereunder, not more than 25 percent of the value of the assets of
any Credit Party will be Margin Stock.  None of Borrower or any of its Sub-
sidiaries is a "holding company", or an "affiliate" of a "holding company"
or a "subsidiary company" of a "holding company", within the meaning of the
United States Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended.  No
Credit Party is subject to regulation under any law or regulation which
limits its ability to incur Indebtedness, other than Regulation X of the
Board.
5.10.  No Default.  Except as disclosed in Schedule 5.10, Bor-
rower and each of its Subsidiaries have performed all material obligations
required to be performed by them under their respective Contractual Obliga-
tions (including after giving effect to the Transactions) and they are not
(with or without the lapse of time or the giving of notice, or both) in
breach or default in any respect thereunder, except to the extent that such
breach or default, individually or in the aggregate, would not have a Mate-
rial Adverse Effect.  Neither Borrower nor any Subsidiary of Borrower (in-
cluding after giving effect to the Transactions) is in default under any
material judgment, order or decree of any Governmental Authority, domestic
or foreign, applicable to it or any of its respective properties, assets,
operations or business, except to the extent that any such defaults would
not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.11.  Taxes.  Except as disclosed in Schedule 5.11, each of
Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries (including after giving effect to
the Transactions) (i) has filed or caused to be filed all material tax re-
turns which are required to be filed (and all such tax returns were true
and correct in all material respects when and as filed) and (ii) has paid
all taxes shown to be due and payable on said returns or on any assessments
made against it or any of its property and all other taxes, fees or other
charges imposed on it or any of its property by any Governmental Authority
(other than any (x) the amount of which is currently being contested in
good faith by appropriate proceedings and with respect to which reserves
(or other sufficient provisions) in conformity with GAAP have been provided
on the books of Borrower or its Subsidiaries (including after giving effect
to the Transactions), as the case may be, or (y) which would not, individu-
ally or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect).
5.12.  Subsidiaries.  After giving effect to the consummation
of the Transactions, the Subsidiaries of Borrower, their jurisdictions of
incorporation and their owners (by holder and parent interest) on the Clos-
ing Date shall be as set forth on Schedule 5.12.
5.13.  Ownership of Property; Liens.  As of the Closing Date
and as of the making of any extension of credit hereunder (subject to
transfers and dispositions of property permitted under subsection 8.5),
each of Borrower and its Subsidiaries has good and valid title to all of
its material assets (other than (x) real property or interests in real
property and (y) minor irregularities or deficiencies in title which, indi-
vidually or in the aggregate, would not have a Material Adverse Effect) in
each case free and clear of all Liens except Permitted Liens.  With respect
to real property or interests in real property, as of the Closing Date,
each of Borrower and its Subsidiaries has (i) good and marketable fee title
to all of the real property owned by it, which real property is listed on
Schedule 5.13 under the heading "Fee Properties" (each, a "Fee Property"),
and (ii) good and valid title to the leasehold estates in all of the real
property leased by it, which leased real property is listed on Schedule
5.13 under the heading "Leased Properties" (each, a "Leased Property"), in
each case, free and clear of all Liens of any nature whatsoever, except
(a) Permitted Liens and (b) as to Leased Property, the terms and provisions
of the respective lease therefor, including, without limitation, the mat-
ters set forth on Schedule 5.13, and any matters affecting the fee title
and any estate superior to the leasehold estate related thereto.  The Fee
Properties and the Leased Properties constitute, as of the Closing Date,
all of the real property owned in fee or leased by Borrower and its Sub-
sidiaries.
5.14.  ERISA.  (a)  No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasona-
bly expected to occur that, when taken together with all other such ERISA
Events for which liability is reasonably expected to occur, could reasona-
bly be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.  The present value
of all accumulated benefit obligations of all underfunded Pension Plans
(based on the assumptions used for purposes of Statement of Financial Ac-
counting Standards No. 87) did not, as of the date of the most recent fi-
nancial statements reflecting such amounts, exceed by more than $1,000,000
the fair market value of the assets of all such underfunded Pension Plans.
Each ERISA Entity is in compliance in all material respects with the pres-
ently applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code with respect to each Em-
ployee Benefit Plan, other than failures to comply the liability for which
could not, taken as a whole, reasonably be expected to result in a Material
Adverse Effect.  Using actuarial assumptions and computation methods con-
sistent with subpart 1 of subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA, the aggregate
liabilities of each ERISA Entity to all Multiemployer Plans in the event of
a complete withdrawal therefrom, as of the close of the most recent fiscal
year of each such Multiemployer Plan, would not reasonably be expected to
result in a Material Adverse Effect.  As of the Closing Date, neither Bor-
rower nor any of its Subsidiaries maintain or contribute to any plan, pro-
gram, policy, arrangement or agreement with respect to employees (or former
employees) employed outside the United States.
(b)  If applicable, each Foreign Plan has been maintained in
substantial compliance with its terms and with the requirements of any and
all applicable laws, statutes, rules, regulations and orders and has been
maintained, where required, in good standing with applicable regulatory
authorities, other than failures to comply the liability for which could
not, taken as a whole, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Ad-
verse Effect.  Neither Borrower nor any Subsidiary has incurred any mate-
rial obligation in connection with the termination of or withdrawal from
any Foreign Plan.  The present value of the accrued benefit liabilities
(whether or not vested) under each Foreign Plan which is funded, determined
as of the end of the most recently ended fiscal year of Borrower or any
Subsidiary on the basis of actuarial assumptions, each of which is reason-
able, did not exceed the current value of the assets of such Foreign Plan
by more than $1,000,000, and for each Foreign Plan which is not funded, the
obligations of such Foreign Plan are properly accrued in all material re-
spects.
5.15.  Collateral Documents.  (a)  Upon execution and delivery
thereof by the parties thereto, the Collateral Agreement will be effective
to create in favor of the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of
the Lenders, a legal, valid and enforceable security interest in the
pledged stock described therein and, when stock certificates representing
or constituting the pledged stock described in the Collateral Agreement are
delivered to the Administrative Agent, such security interest shall consti-
tute a perfected first lien on, and security interest in, all right, title
and interest of the pledgor party thereto in the pledged stock described
therein (to the extent such matter is governed by the law of the United
States or a jurisdiction therein).
(b)  Upon execution and delivery thereof by the parties
thereto, the Collateral Agreement will be effective to create in favor of
the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Lenders, a legal,
valid and enforceable security interest in the collateral described therein
(to the extent such matter is governed by the law of the United States or a
jurisdiction therein), and UCC financing statements have been filed in each
of the jurisdictions listed on Schedule 5.15(b), or arrangements have been
made for such filing in such jurisdictions, and upon such filing, and upon
the taking of possession by the Administrative Agent of any such collateral
the security interests in which may be perfected only by possession (to the
extent possession by the Administrative Agent is required by the Collateral
Agreement), such security interests will, subject to the existence of Per-
mitted Liens, constitute perfected first priority liens on, and security
interests in, all right, title and interest of the debtor party thereto in
the collateral described therein, except to the extent that a security in-
terest cannot be perfected therein by the filing of a financing statement
or the taking of possession under the UCC of the relevant jurisdiction (or,
if a security interest can be perfected only by possession, to the extent
possession by the Administrative Agent is not required pursuant to the Col-
lateral Agreement).
(c)  Upon execution and delivery thereof by the relevant Credit
Party, each Mortgage will be effective to create in favor of the Adminis-
trative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Lenders, a legal, valid and
enforceable security interest in the collateral described therein, and upon
recording the Mortgages in the jurisdiction in which the property covered
by such Mortgage is located, such security interests will, subject to the
existence of Permitted Liens, constitute first priority liens on, and per-
fected security interests in, all rights, title and interest of the debtor
party thereto in the collateral described therein.
5.16.  Copyrights, Patents, Permits, Trademarks and Licenses.
Schedule 5.16 sets forth a true and complete list as of the Closing Date of
all registered Intellectual Property and, with respect to registered trade-
marks (if any), contains a list of all jurisdictions in which such trade-
marks are registered or applied for and all registration and application
numbers.  Except as disclosed in Schedule 5.16, Borrower or one of its Sub-
sidiaries owns or has the right to use, the Intellectual Property and ap-
plications therefor referred to in such Schedule.  Except as disclosed in
Schedule 5.16, no claims are pending by any Person with respect to the own-
ership, validity, enforceability or Borrower's or any Subsidiary's use of
the Intellectual Property, or applications therefor, challenging or ques-
tioning the validity or effectiveness of any of the foregoing, in any ju-
risdiction, domestic or foreign, except to the extent such claims, indi-
vidually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a
Material Adverse Effect.
5.17.  Environmental Matters.  Except as disclosed in Schedule
5.17 and except for matters or circumstances that, individually or in the
aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse
Effect:
(a)  the properties owned, leased, or otherwise operated by
Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries do not contain, and have not pre-
viously contained, in, on or under, including, without limitation,
the soil and groundwater thereunder, any Hazardous Materials in
amounts or concentrations that constitute a violation by Borrower or
any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of, or could reasonably be ex-
pected to give rise to liability on the part of Borrower or any of
its Restricted Subsidiaries under, Environmental Laws;
(b)  the properties owned or leased, or otherwise operated by
Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries and all operations and
facilities at such properties are in compliance with all Environ-
mental Laws, and there is no Hazardous Material at, on, under or ema-
nating from any such properties, or violation of any Environmental
Law which could interfere with the continued operation of, or impair
the otherwise fair saleable value of, such properties;
(c)  neither Borrower nor any Restricted Subsidiary of Borrower
has received or is aware of any written complaint, notice of viola-
tion, alleged violation, or notice of investigation or of potential
liability under Environmental Laws with regard to Borrower or its Re-
stricted Subsidiaries, or any properties owned, leased or otherwise
operated by any of them, nor does Borrower or any of its Restricted
Subsidiaries have knowledge that any such action is being contem-
plated, considered or threatened;
(d)  Hazardous Materials have not been generated, treated,
stored or disposed of at, on or under any properties presently or
formerly owned, leased, or otherwise operated by Borrower or any of
its Restricted Subsidiaries, nor have any Hazardous Materials been
transported from any such property, or come to be located at any
other property, in violation of or in a manner that could reasonably
be expected to give rise to liability on the part of Borrower or any
of its Restricted Subsidiaries under any Environmental Laws;
(e)  there are no administrative actions or judicial proceed-
ings pending or, to the best knowledge of Borrower, threatened under
any Environmental Law to which Borrower or any of its Restricted Sub-
sidiaries is or would be a party, nor are there any consent decrees
or other decrees, consent orders, administrative orders or other or-
ders or agreements to which Borrower or any of its Restricted Sub-
sidiaries is a party which could reasonably be expected to result in
liability or costs on the part of Borrower or any of its Restricted
Subsidiaries under any Environmental Law;
(f)  no Lien has been asserted or recorded, or to the knowledge
of Borrower threatened, under any Environmental Law with respect to
any Real Property or assets of Borrower or any of its Restricted Sub-
sidiaries;
(g)  no Real Property is (x) listed or proposed for listing on
the National Priorities List under the United States Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as
amended ("CERCLA"), or (y) listed on the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Information System List promul-
gated pursuant to CERCLA, or (z) included on any similar list main-
tained by any Governmental Authority; and
(h)  neither Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is currently
conducting any response or other corrective action pursuant to any
Environmental Law with respect to any Real Property or any other lo-
cation.
5.18.  Accuracy and Completeness of Information.  The factual
statements contained in the financial statements referred to in subsection
5.1, the Confidential Memorandum dated January 2002 delivered to the Lend-
ers in connection with the syndication of the Loans and the Commitments
(the "Confidential Information Memorandum"), the Credit Documents (includ-
ing the schedules thereto), each of the Transaction Documents and any other
certificates or documents furnished or to be furnished to the Administra-
tive Agent or the Lenders as updated from time to time in connection with
this Agreement, taken as a whole, do not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make
such statements not misleading in light of the circumstances in which they
were made; provided that with respect to projected or pro forma financial
information, Borrower represents only that such information has been and
will be prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed by Borrower
to be reasonable at the time.  There is no fact known to any Credit Party
that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect that
has not been expressly disclosed herein, in the other Credit Documents, in
the Confidential Information Memorandum or in any other documents, certifi-
cates and statements furnished to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders
for use in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and by the
other Credit Documents.  Borrower understands that all such statements,
representations and warranties shall be deemed to have been relied upon by
the Lenders as a material inducement to make each extension of credit
hereunder.
5.19.  Labor Matters.  Except as disclosed in public filings
with the SEC, there is (i) no unfair labor practice complaint pending
against Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or, to the knowledge
of Borrower, threatened against Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidi-
aries, before the National Labor Relations Board or any other Governmental
Authority, and no grievance or arbitration proceeding arising out of or un-
der any collective bargaining agreement is so pending against Borrower or
any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of Borrower,
threatened against Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, (ii) no
strike, labor dispute, slowdown or stoppage pending against Borrower or any
of its Subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of Borrower, threatened against
Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries and (iii) to the knowledge
of Borrower, no union representation question existing with respect to the
employees of Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries and, to the
knowledge of Borrower, no union organizing activities are taking place, ex-
cept such as would not, with respect to any matter specified in clause (i),
(ii) or (iii) above, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Ad-
verse Effect.
5.20.  Solvency.  Upon giving effect to the issuance of the
Notes, the execution of the Credit Documents by Borrower and its Subsidiar-
ies and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and the
Transactions, each Credit Party will be Solvent as of the Closing Date.
5.21.  Use of Proceeds.  Borrower will use the proceeds of
(i) all Tranche B Term Loans to finance the Transactions and pay related
fees and expenses and (ii) Revolving Credit Loans after the Closing Date to
provide for the ongoing working capital and general corporate purposes of
Borrower and its Subsidiaries (it being understood that no Revolving Credit
Loans shall be made on the Closing Date).
SECTION 6.	CONDITIONS PRECEDENT
6.1.  Conditions to Initial Loans and Letters of Credit.  The
obligation of each Lender to make its Loans, and the obligation of the Is-
suing Lender to issue any Letter of Credit, on the Closing Date are subject
to the satisfaction, or waiver by such Lender, immediately prior to or con-
currently with the making of such Loans or the issuance of such Letters of
Credit, as the case may be, of the following conditions:
(a)  Agreement; Notes.  The Administrative Agent shall have re-
ceived (i) a counterpart of this Agreement for each Lender duly exe-
cuted and delivered by a duly authorized officer of Borrower, (ii)
for the account of each Revolving Credit Lender requesting the same
pursuant to subsection 4.13(e), a Revolving Credit Note of Borrower
conforming to the requirements of this Agreement and executed by a
duly authorized officer of Borrower, (iii) for the account of each
Tranche B Term Loan Lender requesting the same pursuant to subsection
4.13(e), a Tranche B Term Note, conforming to the requirements of
this Agreement and executed by a duly authorized officer of Borrower,
and (iv) if requested by Swing Line Lender, for the account of Swing
Line Lender, a Swing Line Note, conforming to the requirements of
this Agreement and executed by a duly authorized officer of Borrower.
(b)  Transactions.  The Lead Arranger shall have reviewed, and
be reasonably satisfied with, the final terms and conditions and the
documentation relating to the Transactions.
(c)  [Reserved]
(d)  Financial Statements.  The Lead Arranger shall have re-
ceived the financial statements described in subsection 5.1 no later
than three Business Days before the Closing Date and such financial
statements shall be in form and scope reasonably satisfactory to the
Lead Arranger and shall not be materially inconsistent with the fi-
nancial statements previously provided to the Lead Arranger.
(e)  Fees.  The Administrative Agent and the Lead Arranger
shall have received all costs, fees, expenses (including, without
limitation, the invoiced fees and expenses of Cahill Gordon & Rein-
del, counsel for the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arranger and
of other legal counsel for the Administrative Agent) and other con-
sideration presented for payment required to be paid on or before the
Closing Date.
(f)  Lien Searches; Lien Perfection.  (i) The Administrative
Agent shall have received the results of a search of UCC, tax and
judgment filings made with respect to Borrower and its Subsidiaries
in the jurisdictions set forth on Schedule 6.1(f)(i), together with
copies of financing statements disclosed by such searches and such
searches shall disclose no Liens on any assets encumbered by any Se-
curity Document, except for Liens permitted hereunder or, if unper-
mitted Liens are disclosed, the Administrative Agent shall have re-
ceived satisfactory evidence of the release of such Liens, (ii) the
Administrative Agent shall have the results of intellectual property
searches described on Schedule 6.1(f)(ii), together with copies of
Liens disclosed thereby and such searches shall disclose no Liens on
any intellectual property encumbered by any Security Document except
for Liens permitted hereunder or if unpermitted Liens are disclosed,
the Administrative Agent shall have received satisfactory evidence of
the release of such Liens, and (iii) the Administrative Agent shall
have received duly executed financing statements on Form UCC-1 and
other instruments, necessary or, in the reasonable opinion of the Ad-
ministrative Agent, desirable to perfect the Liens created by the Se-
curity Documents.
(g)  Collateral Agreement.  The Administrative Agent shall have
received the Collateral Agreement executed and delivered by a duly
authorized officer of the parties thereto, together with (i) stock
certificates representing 100% of all issued and outstanding certifi-
cated shares of Capital Stock of each Subsidiary of Borrower, and un-
dated stock powers for each certificate, executed in blank and deliv-
ered by a duly authorized officer of the applicable pledgor and
(ii) all intercompany notes evidencing loans made by any Credit Party
to any other Credit Party or any other Subsidiary, together with in-
struments of transfer or assignment executed in blank with respect
thereto.
(h)  [Reserved].
(i)  Legal Opinions.  The Administrative Agent shall have re-
ceived, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Administrative
Agent, the Lead Arranger and the Lenders (i) an opinion of Brobeck,
Phleger & Harrison LLP, New York counsel to the Credit Parties, in
the form of Exhibit K and (ii) an opinion of Stoel Rives LLP in form
and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(j)  Closing Certificate.  The Administrative Agent shall have
received a Closing Certificate of each Credit Party dated the Closing
Date, in substantially the form of Exhibit L, with appropriate inser-
tions and attachments, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory
to the Administrative Agent and its counsel, executed by the Presi-
dent or any Vice President and the Secretary or any Assistant Secre-
tary (or other appropriate officers or representatives) of Borrower
and its Subsidiaries, respectively.
(k)  Solvency Certificate.  The Administrative Agent shall have
received an Officers' Certificate of Borrower, substantially in the
form of Exhibit O, together with such other evidence reasonably re-
quested by the Lenders, confirming the solvency of Borrower and its
Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis after giving effect to the con-
summation of the Transactions.
(l)  Insurance.  The Administrative Agent shall have received
(i) a schedule describing all insurance (including but not limited to
business interruption insurance) maintained by Borrower and its Sub-
sidiaries pursuant to subsection 7.5 and (ii) certificates (or other
customary evidence as to the obtaining and maintenance by Borrower of
such insurance at the Closing Date) for each policy set forth on such
schedule insuring against casualty and other customary risks.
(m)  Perfection Certificate.  The Administrative Agent shall
have received the Perfection Certificate, substantially in the form
of Exhibit M, duly authorized, executed and delivered by Borrower.
(n)  Indebtedness.  Other than as set forth on Schedule 8.1(a),
after giving effect to the Transactions, on the Closing Date, none of
Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall have (i) any issued and
outstanding Preferred Stock or (ii) any Indebtedness for borrowed
money other than (x) under the Credit Documents and (y) under the Ex-
isting Notes.
(o)  Material Adverse Change.  Since December 31, 2000, there
shall have been no change, event or development (whether or not cov-
ered by insurance) which has had, or would reasonably be expected to
have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on
the business, assets, results of operations, properties, condition
(financial or otherwise) or prospects of Borrower and its Subsidiar-
ies, taken as a whole.
(p)  Officers' Certificate.  The Administrative Agent shall
have received an Officers' Certificate of Borrower, dated the Closing
Date, (i) to the effect set forth in subsections 6.2(a) and (b) and
(ii) to the effect that all conditions precedent to the making of
such initial Loans (except any such condition precedent the satisfac-
tion of which is to be satisfactory to, or subjectively determined
by, the Administrative Agent, the Lead Arranger or any other Agent or
Lender) have been satisfied or waived.
6.2.  Conditions to All Loans and Letters of Credit.  The obli-
gation of (x) each Lender to make any Loan (other than any Revolving Credit
Loan (i) the proceeds of which are to be used to repay Refunded Swing Line
Loans or (ii) to be made as contemplated by the last two sentences of sub-
section 3.8, which shall be made unless an event of the type described in
paragraph (f) of Section 9 has occurred and is continuing) and (y) the Is-
suing Lender to issue any Letter of Credit, is subject to the satisfaction
of the following conditions precedent on the relevant Borrowing Date:
(a)  Representations and Warranties.  Each of the representa-
tions and warranties made in or pursuant to Section 5 or which are
contained in any other Credit Document shall be true and correct in
all material respects (or if any representation or warranty is al-
ready qualified by materiality, in all respects) on and as of the
date of such Loan or of the issuance of such Letter of Credit as if
made on and as of such date (unless stated to relate to a specific
earlier date, in which case, such representations and warranties
shall be true and correct in all material respects (or respects, as
aforesaid) as of such earlier date).
(b)  No Default or Event of Default.  No Default or Event of
Default shall have occurred and be continuing on such Borrowing Date
or after giving effect to such Loan to be made or such Letter of
Credit to be issued on such Borrowing Date.
Each borrowing by Borrower hereunder and the issuance of each Letter of
Credit by the Issuing Lender hereunder shall constitute a representation
and warranty by Borrower as of the date of such borrowing or issuance that
the conditions in clauses (a) and (b) and of this subsection 6.2 have been
satisfied.
SECTION 7.	AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS
Borrower hereby agrees that, so long as the Commitments remain
in effect, any Loan, Note or L/C Obligation remains outstanding and unpaid,
any amount (unless cash in an amount equal to such amount has been depos-
ited to a cash collateral account established by the Administrative Agent)
remains available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit or any other
amount is owing to any Lender or the Administrative Agent hereunder or un-
der any of the other Credit Documents, it shall, and, in the case of the
agreements contained in subsections 7.3 through 7.6, and 7.8 through 7.11,
Borrower shall cause each of its Subsidiaries (other than Unrestricted Sub-
sidiaries, except as specified below) to:
7.1.  Financial Statements.  Furnish to the Administrative
Agent (which the Administrative Agent shall promptly furnish to each
Lender):
(a)  as soon as available, but in any event within 95 days af-
ter the end of each fiscal year of Borrower to end after the Closing
Date, a copy of the consolidated balance sheet of Borrower and its
consolidated Restricted Subsidiaries and a similar consolidating fi-
nancial statement for Borrower and its Subsidiaries, in each case as
at the end of such fiscal year and the related consolidated state-
ments of stockholders' equity and cash flows and the consolidated
statements of income of Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries and
a similar consolidating financial statement for Borrower and its Sub-
sidiaries, in each case for such fiscal year, setting forth in the
case of the consolidated statements of income referred to above in
comparative form the figures for the previous year and, in the case
of the consolidated balance sheet referred to above, reported on,
without a "going concern" or like qualification or exception, or
qualification arising out of the scope of the audit, or qualification
which would affect the computation of financial covenants, by inde-
pendent certified public accountants of nationally recognized stand-
ing; and
(b)  as soon as available, but in any event not later than 50
days after the end of each of the first three quarterly periods of
each fiscal year of Borrower to end after the Closing Date, the unau-
dited consolidated balance sheet of Borrower and its Restricted Sub-
sidiaries and a similar consolidating financial statement for Bor-
rower and its Subsidiaries, in each case as at the end of each such
quarter and the related unaudited consolidated statements of income
and cash flows of Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries and a
similar consolidating financial statement for Borrower and its Sub-
sidiaries, in each case for such quarterly period and the portion of
the fiscal year of Borrower through such date, setting forth in the
case of the consolidated statements of income referred to above in
comparative form the figures for the corresponding quarter in, and
year to date portion of, the previous year, certified by the chief
financial officer, controller or treasurer of Borrower as being
fairly stated in all material respects;
all such financial statements described in this subsection 7.1 to be com-
plete and correct in all material respects (subject, in the case of interim
statements, to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of foot-
notes) and to be prepared in reasonable detail and in accordance with GAAP.
7.2.  Compliance Certificates; Other Information.  Furnish to
the Administrative Agent, which the Administrative Agent shall promptly de-
liver or distribute to each Lender:
(a)  concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements
referred to in subsection 7.1, a certificate of the chief financial
officer or treasurer of Borrower stating that, to the best of such
officer's knowledge, during such period
	(i)	no Subsidiary has been formed or acquired (or, if
any such Subsidiary has been formed or acquired, Borrower has
complied with the requirements of subsection 7.9),
	(ii)	neither Borrower nor any of its Restricted Subsidi-
aries has changed its name or jurisdiction of organization
without complying with the requirements of this Agreement and
the Security Documents with respect thereto,
	(iii)	each of Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries
has observed or performed in all material respects all of the
covenants and other agreements, and satisfied every material
condition, contained in this Agreement, the Notes, the Security
Documents and the other Credit Documents to be observed, per-
formed or satisfied by it, and that such officer has obtained
no knowledge of any Default or Event of Default, in each case,
except as specified in such certificate, and
	(iv)	showing in detail as of the end of the related ac-
counting period the figures and calculations supporting such
statement in respect of subsection 8.1(d)(iii), subsections
8.3(b) and (c)(ii) and subsections 8.6(f), 8.6(g), 8.6(h), 8.7,
8.9, 8.10, 8.11 and 8.12(c);
(b)  promptly upon receipt thereof, copies of all final reports
submitted to Borrower or to any of its Subsidiaries (including Unre-
stricted Subsidiaries) by independent certified public accountants in
connection with each annual, interim or special audit of the books of
Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (including Unrestricted Subsidi-
aries) made by such accountants, and, upon the request of any Lender
(through the Administrative Agent), any final comment letter submit-
ted by such accountants to management in connection with their annual
audit;
(c)  promptly upon their becoming available, copies of all fi-
nancial statements, reports, notices and proxy statements sent or
made available to the public generally by Borrower or any of its Sub-
sidiaries (including Unrestricted Subsidiaries), if any, and all
regular and periodic reports and all final registration statements
and final prospectuses, if any, filed by Borrower or any of its Sub-
sidiaries (including Unrestricted Subsidiaries) with any securities
exchange or with the SEC or any Governmental Authority succeeding to
any of its functions (excluding in each case any exhibits thereto,
which shall be promptly furnished to the Administrative Agent upon
its request);
(d)  promptly, such additional financial and other information
(including in respect of any Unrestricted Subsidiary) as any Lender
may from time to time reasonably request (through the Administrative
Agent); and
(e)  furnish to the Administrative Agent as soon as available,
but in any event not later than 50 days after the beginning of each
fiscal year of Borrower to end after the Closing Date to which such
budget relates, a preliminary consolidated operating budget for Bor-
rower and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole; and as soon
as available, any material revision to or any final revision of any
such preliminary annual operating budget or any such consolidated op-
erating budget.
7.3.  Payment of Obligations.  Pay, discharge or otherwise sat-
isfy at or before maturity or before they become delinquent, as the case
may be, all its obligations and liabilities of whatever nature, except
(a) when the amount or validity thereof is currently being contested in
good faith by appropriate proceedings and reserves in conformity with GAAP
with respect thereto have been provided on the books of Borrower or any of
its Subsidiaries, as the case may be, (b) for delinquent obligations which
do not have a Material Adverse Effect, (c) for trade payables, accounts
payable and other payables such as accrued revenue sharing payables in the
ordinary course of business which are not overdue for a period of more than
120 days or, if overdue for more than 120 days, as to which the vendor has
consented (whether by written agreement or by implied consent) as to the
extension of terms or a dispute exists and adequate reserves in conformity
with GAAP have been established on the books of Borrower or any of its Sub-
sidiaries, as the case may be, and (d) in the event any failure to dis-
charge or otherwise satisfy any such obligation or liability results in the
incurrence of a Lien against any of the collateral, such Lien and the con-
test thereof shall satisfy the Contested Collateral Lien Conditions.  This
covenant applies to Unrestricted Subsidiaries.
7.4.  Conduct of Business and Maintenance of Existence.  Except
as disclosed in Schedules 5.3 and 5.16 and as otherwise permitted by sub-
sections 8.4 and 8.5, preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its
corporate existence and take all reasonable action to maintain all material
rights, material privileges, franchises, copyrights, patents, trademarks
and trade names necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its busi-
ness except for rights, privileges, franchises, copyrights, patents, trade-
marks and trade names the loss of which would not, in the aggregate, have a
Material Adverse Effect; and comply with all applicable Requirements of Law
except to the extent that the failure to comply therewith would not, in the
aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
7.5.  Maintenance of Property; Insurance.  (a)  Keep all prop-
erty and assets useful and necessary in its business in good working order
and condition (ordinary wear and tear excepted);
(b)  Subject to the other provisions of this subsection 7.5,
maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies insurance
on all its property and assets in at least such amounts and with only such
deductibles as are usually maintained by, and against at least such risks
(but including, in any event, general liability and property insurance (in-
cluding business interruption) and such other insurance against such risks
as the Administrative Agent may from time to time reasonably require) as
are usually insured against in the same general area by, companies engaged
in the same or a similar business, and furnish to each Lender, upon written
request of any Lender (made through the Administrative Agent), full infor-
mation as to the insurance carried;
(c)  Each insurance policy described in subsection 7.5(b) shall
provide that (i) it may not be materially modified, reduced, cancelled or
otherwise terminated without at least thirty (30) days' prior written no-
tice to the Administrative Agent; (ii) the Administrative Agent is permit-
ted to pay any premium therefor within thirty (30) days after receipt of
any notice stating that such premium has not been paid when due; (iii) to
the extent such insurance policy constitutes property insurance, the Admin-
istrative Agent shall be named as loss payee, pursuant to a standard non-
contributory New York mortgagee endorsement and shall be in an amount at
least sufficient to prevent coinsurance liability; and (v) with respect to
liability insurance, the Administrative Agent shall be named as an addi-
tional insured;
 (d)  At least five (5) Business Days prior to the expiration
of any insurance policy or policies required by this subsection 7.5, the
applicable Credit Party shall deliver to the Administrative Agent such in-
surance policy or policies renewing or extending such expiring insurance
policy or policies, renewal or extension insurance certificates or other
reasonable evidence of renewal or extension providing that such insurance
policy or policies are in full force and effect, in each case, as shall be
reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent;
(e)  No Credit Party will purchase separate insurance policies
concurrent in form or contributing in the event of loss with the insurance
policies described in subsection 7.5(b), unless the Administrative Agent is
included thereon as an additional insured or, if applicable, as a loss
payee.  The applicable Credit Party will promptly notify the Administrative
Agent whenever any such separate insurance policy is obtained and shall
promptly deliver to the Administrative Agent the insurance policy or insur-
ance certificate evidencing such insurance, in each case as shall be rea-
sonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent; and
(f)  In the event that the proceeds of any insurance claim are
paid after the Administrative Agent has exercised its right to foreclose
after an Event of Default such proceeds shall be paid to the Administrative
Agent to satisfy any deficiency remaining after such foreclosure.
7.6.  Inspection of Property; Books and Records; Discussions.
Keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct en-
tries are made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business
and activities which permit financial statements to be prepared in confor-
mity with GAAP and all Requirements of Law; and permit representatives of
the Administrative Agent or any Lender upon reasonable notice (made through
the Administration Agent and no more frequently than quarterly unless a De-
fault or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing) to visit
and inspect any of its properties or assets and examine and make abstracts
from any of its books and records at any reasonable time and upon reason-
able notice, and to discuss the business, operations, assets and financial
and other condition of Borrower and its Subsidiaries with officers and em-
ployees thereof and with their independent certified public accountants
with prior reasonable notice to, and coordination with, the chief financial
officer or the treasurer of Borrower.
7.7.  Notices.  Promptly give notice to the Administrative
Agent (to be distributed by the Administrative Agent to the Lenders):
(a)  of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default;
(b)  of any (i) default or event of default under any instru-
ment or other agreement, guarantee or collateral document of Borrower
or any of its Subsidiaries (including Unrestricted Subsidiaries)
which default or event of default has not been waived and would have
a Material Adverse Effect, or (ii) litigation, investigation or pro-
ceeding which may exist at any time between Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries (including Unrestricted Subsidiaries) and any Governmen-
tal Authority, or receipt of any notice of any environmental claim or
assessment against Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (including Un-
restricted Subsidiaries) by Governmental Authority, which in any such
case would have a Material Adverse Effect;
(c)  of any litigation or proceeding against or insolvency of
Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (including Unrestricted Subsidi-
aries) (i) in which more than $5,000,000 of the amount claimed is not
covered by insurance, (ii) in which injunctive or similar relief is
sought which if obtained would have a Material Adverse Effect;
(d)  promptly, upon the occurrence of any ERISA Event that,
alone or together with any other ERISA Events that have occurred,
could reasonably be expected to result in liability of Borrower or
any of its Subsidiaries (including Unrestricted Subsidiaries) in an
aggregate amount exceeding $5,000,000, a written notice specifying
the nature thereof, what action the Borrower, its Subsidiaries or
other ERISA Entity have taken, are taking or propose to take with re-
spect thereto, and, when known, any action taken or threatened by the
Internal Revenue Service, Department of Labor, PBGC or Multiemployer
Plan sponsor with respect thereto;
(e)  upon request by the Administrative Agent, copies of:
(i) each Schedule B (Actuarial Information) to the annual report
(Form 5500 Series) filed by any ERISA Entity with the Internal Reve-
nue Service with respect to each Pension Plan; (ii) the most recent
actuarial valuation report for each Pension Plan; (iii) all notices
received by any ERISA Entity from a Multiemployer Plan sponsor or any
governmental agency concerning an ERISA Event; and (iv) such other
documents or governmental reports or filings relating to any Employee
Benefit Plan as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request;
(f)  of a Material Adverse Effect known to Borrower or any of
its Subsidiaries (including Unrestricted Subsidiaries); and
(g)  of the creation, formation or acquisition of, or material
Investment in, any Unrestricted Subsidiary.
Each notice pursuant to this subsection 7.7 shall be accompanied by a
statement of a Responsible Officer of Borrower setting forth in reasonable
detail the occurrence referred to therein and (in the cases of clauses
(a) through (d)) stating what action (if any) Borrower proposes to take
with respect thereto.  It is understood that, in an effort to comply with
its covenants hereunder, Borrower may from time to time deliver notices of
events (including events of the types described above) to the Administra-
tive Agent and/or the Lenders, and that the notification of any event or
events shall not constitute an admission or determination by Borrower that
the event or events covered by such notice have resulted or will result in
a Material Adverse Effect.
7.8.  Environmental Laws.  (a)  Except where non-compliance
would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect
(i) comply with all Environmental Laws applicable to it, and obtain, comply
with and maintain any and all Environmental Permits necessary for its op-
erations as conducted and as planned; and (ii) use reasonable efforts to
cause all of its tenants, subtenants, contractors, subcontractors, and in-
vitees to comply with all Environmental Laws, and obtain, comply with and
maintain any and all Environmental Permits, applicable to any of them.
This covenant applies to Unrestricted Subsidiaries.
(b)  Comply with all orders and lawful directives regarding En-
vironmental Laws issued to Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries by any Gov-
ernmental Authority, other than such orders and lawful directives (x) as to
which an appeal or other challenge has been timely and properly taken in
good faith or (y) which would not reasonably be expected to give rise to a
Material Adverse Effect.  This covenant applies to Unrestricted Subsidiar-
ies.
7.9.	Additional Collateral and Guarantees.  (a)  Subject to
subsection 7.9(d), with respect to any assets acquired after the Closing
Date by Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries that are intended to
be subject to the Lien created by any of the Security Documents but which
are not so subject (but in any event excluding any assets described in
paragraph (b) of this subsection promptly (and in any event within 45 days
after the acquisition thereof)):  (x) execute and deliver to the Adminis-
trative Agent such amendments or supplements to the relevant Security Docu-
ments or such other documents as the Administrative Agent shall deem neces-
sary or advisable to grant to the Administrative Agent, for its benefit and
for the benefit of the other Secured Parties, a Lien on such properties or
assets subject to no Liens other than Permitted Liens, and (y) take all ac-
tions necessary to cause such Lien to be duly perfected to the extent re-
quired by such Security Document in accordance with all applicable Require-
ments of Law, including, without limitation, the filing of financing state-
ments in such jurisdictions as may be reasonably requested by the Adminis-
trative Agent.  Borrower shall otherwise take such actions and execute
and/or deliver to the Administrative Agent such documents as the Adminis-
trative Agent shall require to confirm the validity, perfection and prior-
ity of the Lien of Security Documents against such after-acquired proper-
ties or assets.
(b)  With respect to any Person that is or becomes a wholly
owned Subsidiary (other than (A) any Foreign Subsidiary that is not a di-
rect Subsidiary of a Credit Party and (B) any Unrestricted Subsidiary that
is not a direct Subsidiary of a Credit Party) that has assets having either
book value or fair market value in excess of $2,000,000, promptly (and in
any event within 45 days after such Person becomes a Subsidiary or has such
assets) (i) deliver to the Administrative Agent the certificates represent-
ing the Capital Stock of such Subsidiary (provided that with respect to any
Foreign Subsidiary of the Borrower, in no event shall more than 65% of the
Capital Stock of any Foreign Subsidiary be subject to any Lien or pledged
under any Credit Document), together with undated stock powers executed and
delivered in blank by a duly authorized officer of Borrower or such Sub-
sidiary, as the case may be, and all intercompany notes owing from such
Subsidiary to any Credit Party, and (ii) cause such new Subsidiary (other
than any Foreign Subsidiary and other than any Unrestricted Subsidiary)
(x) to become a party to the Subsidiary Guarantee and the Collateral Agree-
ment or such comparable documentation which is in form and substance rea-
sonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, and (y) to take all ac-
tions necessary or advisable to cause the Lien created by the Collateral
Agreement to be duly perfected to the extent required by such agreement in
accordance with all applicable Requirements of Law, including, without
limitation, the filing of financing statements in such jurisdictions as may
be reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent.
(c)  If at any time any two or more wholly-owned Subsidiaries
in the aggregate not otherwise subject to subsection 7.9(b) have assets
having either a book value or fair market value in excess of $10,000,000,
then Borrower shall, and shall cause one or more of such Subsidiaries to,
comply with subsection 7.9(b) within the time frames set forth in such sub-
section so that no two or more such Subsidiaries hold assets having either
a book value or fair market value in excess of $10,000,000.
(d)  Upon the written request of the Administrative Agent, Bor-
rower will, and will cause its wholly owned Restricted Subsidiaries to,
promptly grant to the Administrative Agent, within 60 days of such request,
security interests and Mortgages in such owned Real Property of Borrower
and its wholly owned Restricted Subsidiaries that, together with any im-
provements thereon, individually have a fair market value of at least
$5,000,000, as additional security for the Obligations (unless the subject
property is already mortgaged to a third party to the extent permitted by
subsection 8.2).  In connection with any Mortgage required pursuant to this
subsection 7.9(d), the Administrative Agent shall have received within 60
days of the written request of the Administrative Agent (i) a Mortgage in
form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent,
executed and delivered by a duly authorized officer of the appropriate
Credit Party, together with such certificates, affidavits, questionnaires,
instruments or returns as shall be required in connection with filing or
recordation thereof and to grant a perfected Lien on such Mortgaged Prop-
erty, (ii) such UCC-1 Financing Statements and other similar statements as
are contemplated by such Mortgage, (iii) policies or certificates of insur-
ance as required by the Mortgage relating thereto, which policies or cer-
tificates shall comply with the insurance requirements contained in subsec-
tion 7.5, (iv) evidence reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent
of payment by Borrower of all mortgage recording taxes, fees, charges,
costs and expenses required for the recording of such Mortgage, (v) a
Lender's title policy with respect to each such Mortgage paid for by Bor-
rower, issued by Title Company, together with such endorsements (including,
without limitation, "tie-in" or "cluster," first loss, last dollar, usury,
contiguity, revolving credit, doing business, non-imputation, public road
access, survey, variable rate, zoning (provided that with respect to zon-
ing, Borrower may, in lieu of such endorsement, deliver a zoning compliance
letter prepared by the appropriate Governmental Authority or a zoning and
site requirement summary report prepared by the Planning and Zoning Re-
source Corporation or other similar service reasonably acceptable to the
Administrative Agent) and so-called comprehensive coverage over covenants
and restrictions), coinsurance and reinsurance as may be reasonably re-
quested by the Administrative Agent, in form and substance reasonably ac-
ceptable to the Administrative Agent, insuring the Mortgage as a first Lien
on the relevant Mortgaged Property and subject only to Permitted Encum-
brances and such other Liens expressly agreed to by the Administrative
Agent, (vi) such consents, approvals, estoppels, tenant subordination
agreements or other instruments as shall be necessary or appropriate in the
reasonable judgment of the Administrative Agent in order for the owner or
holder of the Fee Property constituting such Mortgaged Property to grant
the Lien contemplated by the Mortgage with respect to such Mortgaged Prop-
erty and (vii) a Survey with respect to such Mortgaged Property.  The Mort-
gages or instruments related thereto shall be duly recorded or filed in
such manner and in such places as are required by law to establish, per-
fect, preserve and protect the Liens in favor of the Administrative Agent
required to be granted pursuant to the Mortgages.
7.10.  Post-Closing Collateral Matters; Control Agreements.
(a) Execute and deliver the documents and complete the tasks set forth on
Schedule 7.10, in each case within the time limits and in the manner speci-
fied on such schedule; and
(b)  Each Credit Party hereby agrees that it shall within
ninety (90) days after the Closing Date enter into a duly authorized, exe-
cuted and delivered Control Agreement with respect to each Deposit Account,
Securities Account or Commodity Account listed in Schedule X-2 to the Col-
lateral Agreement and the Collateral Account.
7.11.  Compliance with Law.  Conduct its business and affairs
in compliance with all Laws applicable thereto except to the extent failure
to do so would not, in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
7.12.  Security Interests; Further Assurances.  Promptly, upon
the reasonable request of Administrative Agent or any Lender, at Borrower's
expense, execute, acknowledge and deliver, or cause the execution, acknowl-
edgment and delivery of, and thereafter register, file or record, or cause
to be registered, filed or recorded, in an appropriate governmental office,
any document or instrument supplemental to or confirmatory of the Security
Documents or otherwise deemed by Administrative Agent reasonably necessary
or desirable for the continued validity, perfection and priority of the
Liens on the Collateral covered thereby superior to and prior to the rights
of all third Persons other than the holders of Permitted Liens and subject
to other Liens except as permitted by the Security Documents, or obtain any
consents.  Deliver or cause to be delivered to Administrative Agent from
time to time such other documentation, consents, authorizations, approvals
and orders in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Administrative
Agent as Administrative Agent shall reasonably deem necessary to perfect or
maintain the Liens on the Collateral pursuant to the Security Documents.
Upon the exercise by Administrative Agent or the Lenders of any power,
right, privilege or remedy pursuant to any Credit Document which requires
any consent, approval, registration, qualification or authorization of any
Governmental Authority execute and deliver all applications, certifica-
tions, instruments and other documents and papers that Administrative Agent
or the Lenders may be so required to obtain.  If Administrative Agent or
the Required Lenders determine that they are required by law or regulation
to have appraisals prepared in respect of the Real Property of any Credit
Party constituting Collateral, Borrower shall provide to Administrative
Agent appraisals that satisfy the applicable requirements of the Real Es-
tate Appraisal Reform Amendments of FIRREA and are in form and substance
satisfactory to Administrative Agent.
7.13.  Unrestricted Subsidiary Financial Statements.  All fi-
nancial statements of each Unrestricted Subsidiary distributed to any
creditor of an Unrestricted Subsidiary shall clearly state the separateness
of such Unrestricted Subsidiary from the Credit Parties.
SECTION 8.	NEGATIVE COVENANTS
Borrower hereby agrees that it shall not, and it shall not per-
mit any of its Subsidiaries (other than any Unrestricted Subsidiaries, ex-
cept as expressly specified below) to, directly or indirectly, so long as
the Commitments remain in effect or any Loan, Note or L/C Obligation re-
mains outstanding and unpaid, any amount remains available to be drawn un-
der any Letter of Credit (unless cash in an amount equal to such amount has
been deposited to a cash collateral account established by the Administra-
tive Agent) or any other amount is owing to any Lender or the Administra-
tive Agent hereunder or under any other Credit Document (it being under-
stood that each of the permitted exceptions to each of the covenants in
this Section 8 is in addition to, and not overlapping with, any other of
such permitted exceptions except to the extent expressly provided):
8.1.  Indebtedness.  Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist
any Indebtedness, except:
(a)  the Indebtedness outstanding on the Closing Date and dis-
closed in Schedule 8.1(a) and the Refinancing of any such Indebted-
ness on terms and conditions taken as a whole materially no less fa-
vorable to Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries or the Lenders
than the Indebtedness being Refinanced (except that the interest rate
and fees payable on any refinanced debt need only be on market terms
and provided that Indebtedness which Refinances Subordinated Indebt-
edness must be Subordinated Indebtedness);
(b)  Indebtedness consisting of the Loans and in connection
with the Letters of Credit and this Agreement;
(c)  Contingent Obligations, including Interest Rate Agree-
ments, permitted by subsection 8.3;
(d)  Indebtedness
	(i)	of Borrower to any Subsidiary, and
	(ii)	of any Qualified Subsidiary to Borrower or to any
other Subsidiary, and
	(iii)	of any Foreign Subsidiary or any non-Qualified Sub-
sidiary to Borrower or any other Subsidiary in an aggregate
principal amount at any time outstanding not to exceed in the
aggregate for all Foreign Subsidiaries and non-Qualified Sub-
sidiaries $2,000,000 (plus the sum of any amounts dividended or
distributed by any Foreign Subsidiary or non-Qualified Subsidi-
ary to Borrower or any Qualified Subsidiary), minus the sum of
(x) the amount of any guarantees of obligations of Foreign Sub-
sidiaries or Non-Qualified Subsidiaries pursuant to subsection
8.3(c)(ii) and (y) the amount of other Investments made in For-
eign Subsidiaries or non-Qualified Subsidiaries pursuant to
subsection 8.6(b)(iii);
(e)  other Indebtedness of Borrower and its Subsidiaries in an
aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not in excess
of $10,000,000;
(f)  Indebtedness of Borrower and its Subsidiaries in respect
of Capital Lease Obligations to the extent subsection 8.9 would not
be contravened thereby;
(g)  Indebtedness
	(i)	of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries assumed in
connection with acquisitions permitted by subsection 8.6(g) (so
long as such Indebtedness was not incurred in anticipation of
such acquisition);
	(ii)	of newly acquired Subsidiaries of Borrower acquired
in such acquisitions (so long as such Indebtedness was not in-
curred in anticipation of such acquisition), and
	(iii)	of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries owed to the
seller in any acquisition permitted by subsection
8.6(g) constituting part of the purchase price thereof,
all of which Indebtedness permitted by this subsection 8.1(g) shall
not exceed in the aggregate at any one time $10,000,000 outstanding,
and Refinancings of Indebtedness permitted under this subsection
8.1(g);
(h)  Indebtedness in connection with surety bonds, letters of
credit and performance bonds obtained in connection with workers'
compensation obligations of Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries;
(i)  Indebtedness of Foreign Subsidiaries in an aggregate prin-
cipal amount at any time outstanding not in excess of the equivalent
at the date of each incurrence thereof of $2,000,000;
(j)  Indebtedness of Borrower and its Subsidiaries for indus-
trial revenue bonds or other similar governmental and municipal bonds
for the deferred purchase price of newly acquired property and to fi-
nance equipment of Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries (pursuant
to purchase money mortgages or otherwise and whether owed to the
seller or a third party) used in the ordinary course of business
(provided that such financing is entered into within 180 days of the
acquisition of such property) of Borrower and its Subsidiaries in an
amount (based on the remaining balance of the obligations therefor on
the books of Borrower and its Subsidiaries) which shall not exceed
$5,000,000 in the aggregate at any one time outstanding, and Refi-
nancings of Indebtedness permitted under this subsection 8.1(j);
(k)  Subordinated Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount
not to exceed   $350,000,000 minus the aggregate principal amount of
Indebtedness issued in connection with the Notes Refinancing; and
(l)   Indebtedness of Borrower in connection with the financing
of Borrower's business insurance premiums, in an aggregate principal
amount at any one time not to exceed $3,000,000.
Borrower shall not designate, or permit or suffer to exist the
designation of, any Indebtedness or other obligation, other than the Obli-
gations, as "Designated Senior Indebtedness," as such term may be defined
in the Existing Notes or the Existing Indenture, or effect or permit or
suffer to exist any comparable designation that confers upon the holders of
such Indebtedness or other obligation (or any Person acting on their be-
half) the right to initiate payment blockage periods under the Existing
Notes or the Existing Indenture.
8.2.  Limitation on Liens.  Create, incur, assume or suffer to
exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets, income or profits, whether
now owned or hereafter acquired, except:
(a)  Liens for taxes, assessments or other governmental charges
not yet delinquent or which are being contested in good faith and by
appropriate proceedings if (i) adequate reserves with respect thereto
are maintained on the books of Borrower or the relevant Subsidiary,
as the case may be, in accordance with GAAP and (ii) in the case of
any such charge which has or may become a Lien against any of the
Collateral, such Lien and the contest thereof shall satisfy the Con-
tested Collateral Lien Conditions;
(b)  carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', landlords', materi-
almen's, repairmen's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary
course of business in respect of obligations which are not yet delin-
quent or which are bonded or which are being contested in good faith
and by appropriate proceedings if (i) adequate reserves with respect
thereto are maintained on the books of Borrower or the relevant Sub-
sidiary, as the case may be, in accordance with GAAP and (ii) in the
case of any such Lien against any of the Collateral, such Lien and
the contest thereof shall satisfy the Contested Collateral Lien Con-
ditions;
(c)  pledges or deposits made in the ordinary course of busi-
ness in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance
and other social security legislation;
(d)  deposits to secure the performance of bids, tenders, trade
or government contracts, leases, licenses, statutory obligations,
surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds, obligations to utilities
for services provided in the ordinary course of business and other
obligations of a like nature (in each case, other than for borrowed
money) incurred in the ordinary course of business for amounts not
yet delinquent or, to the extent such amounts are so delinquent, such
amounts are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings
promptly instituted and diligently conducted if (i) adequate reserves
with respect thereto are maintained on the books of Borrower or the
relevant Subsidiary, as the case may be, in accordance with GAAP and
(ii) in the case of any such Lien against any of the Collateral such
Lien and the contest thereof shall satisfy the Contested Collateral
Lien Conditions;
(e)  easements (including, without limitation, reciprocal ease-
ment agreements), rights-of-way, building, zoning and similar re-
strictions, utility agreements, covenants, reservations, restric-
tions, minor encroachments, and other similar minor encumbrances de-
fects or irregularities in title which do not, individually or in the
aggregate materially detract from the value of the Real Property to
which it relates or, individually or in the aggregate, materially in-
terfere with or adversely affect in any material respect the ordinary
conduct of the business of Borrower and its Subsidiaries on the Real
Property subject thereto;
(f)  Liens in favor of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders
pursuant to the Credit Documents, including Liens pursuant to the
Credit Documents in respect of Interest Rate Agreements, and bankers'
liens arising by operation of law relating thereto;
(g)  Liens on property of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries
created solely for the purpose of securing
	(i)	Indebtedness permitted by subsection 8.1(g);
	(ii)	Indebtedness permitted by subsection 8.1(i);
	(iii)	Indebtedness permitted by subsection 8.1(j);
	(iv)	any Capital Lease Obligation permitted pursuant to
subsection 8.1(f), as long as such Liens do not extend to or
cover assets of Borrower or its Subsidiaries other than the as-
sets subject to such Capital Lease Obligation;
	(v)	purchase money indebtedness or floorplan financing
obligations that are incurred in connection with the acquisi-
tion of Rental Items and game products for resale, as long as
Liens are limited to the Rental Items and game products so ac-
quired and do not extend to or cover other property of Borrower
or its Subsidiaries; and
	(vi)	Liens on unearned insurance premiums to the extent
permitted by subsection 8.1(l);
provided that no such Lien incurred in connection with Indebtedness
pursuant to subsection 8.1(g) or 8.1(j) and any refinancing
thereof shall extend to or cover other property of Borrower or such
Subsidiary other than the respective property so acquired, and the
principal amount of Indebtedness secured by any such Lien shall at no
time exceed the original purchase price payable by Borrower or such
Subsidiary to acquire such property;
(h)  Liens existing on the Closing Date after giving effect to
the consummation of the Transactions and described in subsection 5.13
or Schedule 8.2(h) and any refinancing thereof; provided that no such
Lien shall extend to or cover other assets or property of Borrower or
its Restricted Subsidiaries other than the respective assets or prop-
erty encumbered by such Lien on the Closing Date;
(i)  Liens on documents of title and the property covered
thereby securing Indebtedness in respect of the Commercial L/Cs or
other commercial letters of credit;
(j)  (i) mortgages, liens, security interests, restrictions,
encumbrances or any other matter of record that have been placed by
any developer, landlord or other third party on property over which
Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries has easement rights or on any
Leased Property and subordination or similar agreements relating
thereto and (ii) any condemnation or eminent domain proceedings af-
fecting any real property;
(k)  leases or subleases or licenses or sublicenses with re-
spect to the assets or properties of Borrower or any of its Subsidi-
aries, in each case, entered into in the ordinary course of Bor-
rower's or such Subsidiary's business so long as such leases or sub-
leases (i) are subordinate in all respects to the Liens granted and
evidenced by the Security Documents and, in the case of any lease or
sublease affecting any Mortgaged Property, such lease or sublease
shall also be entered into in compliance with the provisions of the
applicable Mortgage and (ii) do not, individually or in the aggre-
gate, (A) interfere in any material respect with the ordinary conduct
of the business of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or
(B) materially impair the use (for its intended purposes) or the
value of the assets or property subject thereto;
(l)  Liens on goods (and proceeds thereof) financed with draw-
ings under commercial letters of credit securing reimbursement obli-
gations in respect of such commercial letters of credit issued in ac-
cordance with the terms of this Agreement;
(m)  [Reserved];
(n)  Liens in respect of judgment or awards for which appeals
or proceedings for review are being prosecuted and in respect of
which a stay of execution upon any such appeal or proceeding for re-
view shall have been secured, provided that (i) Borrower shall have
established adequate reserves for such judgment or awards, (ii) such
judgment or awards shall be fully insured and the insurer shall not
have denied coverage or (iii) such judgment or awards shall have been
bonded to the satisfaction of the Required Lenders;
(o)  Liens arising from UCC financing statement filings regard-
ing operating leases entered into by Borrower and its Restricted Sub-
sidiaries in the ordinary course of business;
(p)  Liens arising from licenses of personal property which do
not materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of
Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries;
(q)  Liens consisting of rights of set-off of a customary na-
ture or bankers' liens on amount of deposit, whether arising by con-
tract or operation of law, incurred in the ordinary course of busi-
ness so long as such deposits are not intended as collateral for any
obligation;
(r)  Liens granted in favor of a Lender (or any Person who, at
the date of entering into such agreement with Borrower, was an Af-
filiate of a Lender) to secure Obligations of Borrower and its Sub-
sidiaries in respect of Interest Rate Agreements otherwise permitted
under this Agreement;
(s)  other Liens securing Indebtedness in an aggregate princi-
pal amount not to exceed $2,500,000; and
(t)  inchoate Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental
charges or levies not yet due and payable or Liens for taxes, assess-
ments or governmental charges or levies being contested in good faith
and by appropriate proceedings, in each case for which adequate re-
serves have been established in accordance with GAAP in the United
States (or the equivalent thereof in any country in which a Foreign
Subsidiary is doing business).
8.3.  Limitation on Contingent Obligations.  Create, incur, as-
sume or suffer to exist any Contingent Obligation, except:
(a)  the Guarantees;
(b)  other guarantees by Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary
incurred in the ordinary course of business for an aggregate amount
at any time outstanding not to exceed $2,000,000;
(c)  guarantees by Borrower or any Subsidiary
	(i)	of obligations of Domestic Restricted Subsidiaries
or Borrower; and
	(ii)	of obligations of Foreign Restricted Subsidiaries
of Borrower in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed
$2,000,000 (plus the sum of any amounts dividended or distrib-
uted by such Foreign Subsidiaries to Borrower or any Qualified
Subsidiary), minus the sum of (A) the amount outstanding pursu-
ant to subsection 8.1(d)(iii) and (B) the amount of Investments
made in Foreign Subsidiaries or non-Qualified Subsidiaries pur-
suant to subsection 8.6(b)(iii);
provided that, in each case, if the primary obligation being guaran-
teed is subordinated to the Loans, such guarantees are subordinated
to the Guarantees on substantially the same basis as such primary ob-
ligation is subordinated to the Loans;
(d)  Contingent Obligations existing on the Closing Date and
described in Schedule 8.3(d) and Contingent Obligations relating to
any Indebtedness permitted under subsection 8.1(a);
(e)  guarantees of obligations to third parties in connection
with relocation of employees of Borrower or any of its Restricted
Subsidiaries, in an amount which, together with all loans and ad-
vances made pursuant to subsection 8.6(f), shall not exceed
$5,000,000 at any time outstanding;
(f)  Contingent Obligations in connection with workers' compen-
sation obligations, and in connection with performance, surety and
appeal bonds, and similar obligations incurred in the ordinary course
of business, of Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries;
(g)  endorsements for collection in the ordinary course of busi-
ness;
(h)  Interest Rate Agreements permitted by subsection 8.8;
(i)  surety instruments entered into in the ordinary course of
business; and
(j)  contingent obligations in respect of permitted Capital Lease
Obligations.
8.4.  Prohibition of Fundamental Changes.  Enter into any
merger or consolidation or amalgamation, or liquidate, wind up or dissolve
itself (or suffer any liquidation or dissolution), except:
(a)  for the transactions otherwise permitted pursuant to para-
graph (b), (g), (h), (i) or (l) of subsection 8.5 or pursuant to sub-
section 8.6,
(b)  any Subsidiary may be merged with and into Borrower or a
Qualified Subsidiary,
(c)  Subsidiaries with a net book value not greater than
$1,000,000 may be dissolved, and
(d)  any Foreign Subsidiary may be merged with and into Bor-
rower or a Subsidiary of Borrower;
provided that in connection with any of the foregoing, the appropriate
Credit Parties shall take all actions necessary or reasonably requested by
the Administrative Agent to maintain the perfection or perfect, as the case
may be, protect and preserve the Liens on the Collateral granted to the Ad-
ministrative Agent pursuant to the Security Documents and otherwise comply
with the provisions of subsection 7.9 to the extent applicable.
8.5.  Prohibition on Sale of Assets.  Convey, sell, lease
(other than a sublease of real property), assign, transfer or otherwise
dispose of (including through a transaction of merger or consolidation of
any Subsidiary) any of its property, business or assets (including, without
limitation, accounts receivable but excluding leasehold interests), whether
now owned or hereafter acquired, except:
(a)  sales or other dispositions of inventory (including Rental
Items) in the ordinary course of business;
(b)  that Borrower or any Subsidiary of Borrower may sell,
lease, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any or all of its assets
(upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to Borrower or a Qualified
Subsidiary (or, in the case of any Foreign Subsidiary of Borrower, to
Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary of Borrower), and Borrower or
any Subsidiary of Borrower may sell or otherwise dispose of, or part
with control of any or all of, the Capital Stock of any Subsidiary to
Borrower or a Qualified Subsidiary (or, if the Capital Stock of a
Foreign Subsidiary, to Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary of Bor-
rower); provided that (i) Borrower shall not, directly or indirectly,
transfer any substantial part of its assets pursuant to this para-
graph and (ii) all actions necessary or reasonably requested by the
Administrative Agent shall be taken by the appropriate Credit Parties
to maintain the perfection or perfect, as the case may be, protect
and preserve the Liens on the Collateral granted to the Administra-
tive Agent pursuant to the Security Documents;
(c)  leases of Fee Properties and other real property owned in
fee and subleases of Leased Property; provided that in the case of
any lease of Mortgaged Property, such lease shall be subject to the
provisions of the applicable Mortgage;
(d)  any Taking or Destruction affecting any property or assets
subject, however, to the proviso set forth in clause (b) of the defi-
nition of Net Proceeds and provided that the cash proceeds thereof
shall be deposited in the Collateral Account so long as any Default
or Event of Default is in existence;
(e)  substantially like-kind exchanges of real property or
equipment; provided that only any cash in excess of $1,000,000 re-
ceived by Borrower or any Subsidiary of Borrower in connection with
such an exchange (net of all costs and expenses incurred in connec-
tion with such transaction or with the commencement of operation of
real property or equipment received in such exchange and net of any
other amounts described in clauses (w) through (z) of the definition
of Net Proceeds) shall be deemed to be Net Proceeds and shall be ap-
plied in accordance with subsection 4.4(b)(iv) and, to the extent the
real property or equipment subject to such exchange constituted Col-
lateral under the Security Documents, then the property exchanged
therefor shall be mortgaged or pledged contemporaneously with such
exchange, as the case may be, for the benefit of the Secured Parties
in accordance with subsection 7.9;
(f)  the sale or other disposition of any property or assets
(other than Mortgaged Property) that, in the reasonable judgment of
Borrower has become uneconomic, obsolete or worn out or, after rea-
sonable diligence on the part of Borrower or any Subsidiary of Bor-
rower, uncollectable and which is sold or disposed of in the ordinary
course of business; provided that, to the extent such properties or
assets constituted Collateral, the net proceeds thereof shall be re-
invested in properties or assets owned (or to be owned) by Borrower
or its Restricted Subsidiaries having a fair market value at least
equal to the amount of such net proceeds and any property or assets
purchased with such net proceeds shall be mortgaged or pledged, as
the case may be, to the Administrative Agent, for its benefit and for
the benefit of the other Secured Parties, in accordance with subsec-
tion 7.9;
(g)  so long as no Default or Event of Default then exists or
would arise therefrom, the sale or other disposition of any property
or assets the aggregate amount of the net proceeds received in re-
spect of which shall not exceed $5,000,000 in any fiscal year;
(h)  any sale or disposition of any interest in property or as-
sets; provided that (i) so long as no Event of Default then exists,
the net proceeds of any such sale shall constitute Net Proceeds only
to the extent such net proceeds are not reinvested in properties or
assets owned (or to be owned) by Borrower or its Restricted Subsidi-
aries having a fair market value at least equal to the amount of such
net proceeds within twelve months from the date of such sale, (ii)
any property purchased with the net proceeds thereof shall be mort-
gaged or pledged, as the case may be, to the Administrative Agent,
for its benefit and for the benefit of the other Secured Parties in
accordance with subsection 7.9, (iii) the aggregate outstanding
amount of net proceeds held by Borrower and its Subsidiaries at any
time for reinvestment in respect of any property sold pursuant to
this paragraph shall not exceed $10,000,000 and (iv) the Net Proceeds
therefrom shall be deposited in the Collateral Account so long as any
Default or Event of Default is in existence;
(i)  Subsidiaries may (x) be dissolved in accordance with sub-
section 8.4 and (y) pay dividends in accordance with subsection 8.12;
(j)  Investments permitted by subsection 8.6;
(k)  licenses or sublicenses by Borrower or any of its Subsidi-
aries of software, Intellectual Property and general intangible and
leases, licenses or subleases of other property in the ordinary
course of business and which do not materially interfere with the
business of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries; and
(l)  any disposition or dispositions (in an aggregate amount
not to exceed $25,000,000 during the term of this Agreement) in con-
nection with a Sale and Leaseback Transaction; provided that (i) so
long as no Event of Default then exists, the net proceeds of any such
Sale and Leaseback Transaction shall constitute Net Proceeds only to
the extent such net proceeds are not reinvested in properties or as-
sets owned (or to be owned) by Borrower or its Restricted Subsidiar-
ies having a fair market value at least equal to the amount of such
net proceeds within twelve months from the date of such sale, (ii)
any property purchased with the net proceeds thereof shall be mort-
gaged or pledged, as the case may be, to the Administrative Agent,
for its benefit and for the benefit of the other Secured Parties in
accordance with subsection 7.9 and (iii) the Net Proceeds therefrom
shall be deposited in the Collateral Account so long as any Default
or Event of Default is in existence.
8.6.  Limitation on Investments.  Make any Investment in (in-
cluding, without limitation, any acquisition of all or any substantial por-
tion of the assets, and any acquisition of a business or a product line, of
other companies, other than the acquisition of inventory in the ordinary
course of business), any Person (except to the extent permitted by subsec-
tion 8.3 or 8.4 or 8.7), except:
(a)  loans, advances or Indebtedness permitted by subsections
8.1(c) and 8.1(d);
(b)  Investments
	(i)	by any Subsidiary in Borrower; and
	(ii)	by Borrower or by any Subsidiary in any Qualified
Subsidiary (including to create or acquire any Qualified Sub-
sidiary); provided that, in any such case, the requirements of
subsection 7.9 are satisfied; and
	(iii)	by Borrower or by any Subsidiary in any Foreign Re-
stricted Subsidiary (including to create any Foreign Restricted
Subsidiary); provided that (x) the requirements, if any, of
subsection 7.9 are satisfied and (y) the aggregate amount of
all investments in such Foreign Subsidiaries shall not exceed
(I) $2,000,000 (plus the sum of any amounts dividended or dis-
tributed by such Foreign Subsidiaries to Borrower or any Quali-
fied Subsidiary), minus (II) the sum of (x) the amount of any
guarantees of Obligations of Foreign Subsidiaries pursuant to
subsection 8.3(c)(ii) and (y) the amount of any Indebtedness of
any Foreign Subsidiary at any such time outstanding in accor-
dance with subsection 8.1(d)(iii);
(c)  Borrower and its Subsidiaries may invest in, acquire and
hold Cash Equivalents;
(d)  Borrower and its Subsidiaries may make payroll advances in
the ordinary course of business;
(e)  Borrower and its Subsidiaries may acquire and hold receiv-
ables or notes owing to it, if created or acquired in the ordinary
course of business and payable or dischargeable in accordance with
customary trade terms or acquired as consideration for any asset sale
permitted under subsection 8.5; provided that nothing in this clause
(e) shall prevent Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries from offering
such concessionary trade terms, or from receiving such investments,
in connection with the bankruptcy or reorganization of their respec-
tive suppliers or customers or the settlement of disputes with such
customers or suppliers arising in the ordinary course of business, as
management deems reasonable in the circumstances;
(f)  Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries may make travel and
entertainment advances and relocation and other loans to officers and
employees of Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; provided
that the aggregate principal amount of all such loans and advances
outstanding at any one time, together with the guarantees of such
loans and advances made pursuant to subsection 8.3(e), shall not ex-
ceed $5,000,000 at any one time outstanding;
(g)  Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries may make Investments
in joint ventures or other Persons engaged primarily in one or more
businesses in which Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries are en-
gaged or generally related thereto in an aggregate amount not to ex-
ceed $2,000,000 (plus the sum of any amounts dividended or distrib-
uted to Borrower or any Qualified Subsidiary by such joint ventures
or other Persons); provided that at the time of and after giving ef-
fect thereto no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and
be continuing;
(h)  Borrower may make loans to senior management of Borrower
and its Restricted Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount not
to exceed $1,000,000 for purposes of their purchasing Capital Stock
of Borrower;
(i)  transactions effected in accordance with subsection 8.5;
(j)  Borrower or any of the Restricted Subsidiaries may acquire
all or any substantial portion of the assets (other than Capital
Stock or Indebtedness), businesses or product lines of any Person;
provided that (a) the making of such acquisition would not contravene
subsection 8.7 or 8.15 and (b) such assets would be held by Borrower
or a Qualified Subsidiary;
(k)  Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries may make any Invest-
ment; provided that (i) subsection 8.15 would not be contravened
thereby, (ii) such Investment is funded solely by the issuance of
Capital Stock or from the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous
issuance of Capital Stock not required to be applied to the prepay-
ment of the Loans pursuant to subsection 4.4(b) and (iii) the aggre-
gate consideration expended for such Investment, together with all
other Investments made in reliance on this subsection 8.6(k), does
not exceed 5% of the Total Revenues for the most recently ended four
fiscal quarter period;
(l)  Investments existing as of Closing Date and set forth on
Schedule 8.6, and
(m) deposits made to a utility company in the ordinary course
of business to secure performance to such utility company the obliga-
tions of Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
If any Subsidiary would be required to comply with subsec-
tion 7.9(b) immediately after giving effect to any investment permitted by
subsection 8.6(b), such Subsidiary shall comply with the requirements of
such subsection within 10 days of the transaction giving rise to such re-
quirement.
8.7.  New Stores.   In any calendar year, neither Borrower nor
any of its Subsidiaries shall make or commit to make any expenditures in
respect of the opening or the acquisition of any Store if after giving ef-
fect to such opening or acquisition, the total number of Stores acquired or
opened by Borrower and its Subsidiaries in such calendar year exceeds the
then applicable Maximum Number; provided, that, if at the time the first
commitment in respect of such opening or acquisition is made the Leverage
Ratio (as calculated in accordance with the provisions of clause (iii) of
the definition of Leverage Ratio), as set forth in a certificate of the
chief financial officer of Borrower delivered to the Administrative Agent
prior to such opening or acquisition, is less than 0.5:1.0, then such Store
may be opened or acquired, as the case may be, whether or not the Maximum
Number is so exceeded.
8.8.  Interest Rate Agreements.  Enter into, create, incur, as-
sume or suffer to exist any Interest Rate Agreements or obligations in re-
spect thereof except for non-speculative purposes and as permitted by sub-
section 8.1(n).
8.9.  Leverage Ratio.  At the last day of any fiscal quarter
set forth below, permit the Leverage Ratio to be greater than the ratio set
forth below for such fiscal quarter:

Fiscal Year Fiscal Quarter   Ratio

2002
            First            3.0:1.0

            Second           3.0:1.0

            Third            3.0:1.0

            Fourth           2.75:1.0

2003
            First            2.75:1.0

            Second           2.75:1.0

            Third            2.5:1.0

            Fourth           2.5:1.0



2004
            First           2.5:1.0

            Second          2.25:1.0

            Third           2.25:1.0

            Fourth          2.25:1.0



2005
            First           2.0:1.0

            Second          2.0:1.0

            Third           2.0:1.0

            Fourth          2.0:1.0



2006
            First           2.0:1.0

            Second          2.0:1.0

8.10.  Interest Coverage.  At the last day of any fiscal quar-
ter set forth below, permit the Interest Coverage Ratio to be less than the
ratio set forth below for such fiscal quarter:

Fiscal Year   Fiscal Quarter   Ratio

2002
              First            3.0:1.0

              Second           3.0:1.0

              Third            3.0:1.0

              Fourth           3.5:1.0



2003
              First            3.5:1.0

              Second           3.5:1.0

              Third            4.0:1.0

              Fourth           4.0:1.0



2004
              First           4.0:1.0

              Second          5.0:1.0

              Third           5.0:1.0

              Fourth          5.0:1.0



2005
              First           5.0:1.0

              Second          5.0:1.0

              Third           5.0:1.0

              Fourth          5.0:1.0



2006
              First           5.0:1.0

              Second          5.0:1.0

8.11.  Fixed Charge Coverage.  At the last day of any fiscal
quarter, permit the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio to be less than 1.0:1.0.
8.12.  Limitation on Dividends.  Declare, make or pay any Divi-
dend Payments on any shares of any class of Capital Stock, either directly
or indirectly, except that:
(a)  Subsidiaries may pay Dividend Payments pro rata to the
holders of their Capital Stock (giving effect to relative preferences
and priorities);
(b)  Borrower and its Subsidiaries may pay or make Dividend
Payments or distributions to any holder of its Capital Stock in the
form of additional shares of Capital Stock of the same class and
type;
(c)  Borrower may repurchase shares of Capital Stock of Bor-
rower owned by former, present or future employees of Borrower or its
Restricted Subsidiaries or their assigns, estates and heirs; provided
that the aggregate amount expended by Borrower pursuant to this para-
graph (c) shall not in the aggregate exceed (i) $1,000,000 in any
fiscal year or (ii) $2,000,000 during the term of this Agreement,
plus any amounts contributed to Borrower as a result of resales of
such repurchased shares of Capital Stock; and
(d)  So long as no Default or Event of Default then exists,
Borrower may redeem for a nominal price (not to exceed $.01 per
right) any share purchase rights issued on a one-for-one basis on any
outstanding or newly issued or delivered shares of Common Stock.
8.13.  Transactions with Affiliates.  Enter into any transac-
tion, including, without limitation, any purchase, sale, lease or exchange
of property or the rendering of any service, with any Affiliate except for
transactions which are otherwise permitted under this Agreement and which
are in the ordinary course of Borrower's or a Subsidiary's business and
which are upon fair and reasonable terms no less favorable to Borrower or
such Subsidiary than it would reasonably expect to obtain in a hypothetical
comparable arm's length transaction with a Person not an Affiliate; pro-
vided that nothing in this subsection 8.13 shall prohibit Borrower or its
Subsidiaries from engaging in the following transactions:  (1) transactions
between or among Credit Parties, (2) the performance of Borrower's or any
Subsidiary's obligations under any employment contract, collective bargain-
ing agreement, employee benefit plan, related trust agreement or any other
similar arrangement heretofore or hereafter entered into in the ordinary
course of business, (3) the payment of compensation to employees, officers,
directors or consultants in the ordinary course of business, (4) the main-
tenance of benefit programs or arrangements for employees, officers or di-
rectors, including, without limitation, vacation plans, health and life in-
surance plans, deferred compensation plans, and retirement or savings plans
and similar plans, in each case, in the ordinary course of business,
(5) transactions existing as of the Closing Date and included on Schedule
8.13 on the terms then in effect on the Closing Date, and (6) transactions
between or among Borrower and its Subsidiaries permitted by subsections
8.1, 8.2, 8.3, 8.4, 8.5, 8.6, 8.7 and 8.12.
8.14.  Limitation on Changes in Fiscal Year.  Permit the fiscal
year of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to end on a day other than on
December 31 in any calendar year.
8.15.  Limitation on Lines of Business.  Enter into any busi-
ness, either directly or through any Subsidiary, except for those busi-
nesses in which Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries is engaged on the
Closing Date or which are substantially related thereto or are reasonable
extensions thereof (or in businesses that are primarily engaged in the sale
or rental of home videos, DVDs and video games, including but not limited
to the sale or rental of electronics equipment and related hardware and
software).  This covenant applies to Unrestricted Subsidiaries.
8.16.  Amendments to Certain Documents.  Amend, modify, waive
or terminate any provisions of the documentation governing the organization
of Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, in any such case in a
manner which is materially adverse to Borrower or any of its Restricted
Subsidiaries or the Lenders, without the consent of the Administrative
Agent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
8.17.  Limitation on Prepayments and Amendments of Certain
Debt.  (a) Optionally prepay, retire, redeem, purchase, defease or ex-
change, or make or arrange for any mandatory prepayment, retirement, re-
demption, purchase or defeasance of any outstanding Indebtedness (other
than (1) any refinancing of Indebtedness permitted by this Agreement,
(2) the Obligations, (3) the conversion or exchange of Indebtedness for or
into Capital Stock and (4) the prepayment of Capital Lease Obligations per-
mitted by subsection 8.1(f)), or (b) waive, amend, supplement, modify, ter-
minate or release any of the provisions with respect to any Indebtedness of
Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (including Unrestricted Subsidiaries)
without the prior consent of the Administrative Agent, to the extent that
any such waiver, amendment, supplement, modification, termination or re-
lease would be materially adverse to Borrower or any of its Restricted Sub-
sidiaries or the Lenders.
8.18.  No Further Negative Pledge.  Except with respect to pro-
hibitions against other encumbrances on specific property encumbered to se-
cure payment of particular Indebtedness permitted hereunder or prohibitions
in license agreements under which Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is
the licensee, enter into any agreement prohibiting the creation or assump-
tion of any Lien upon its properties or assets, whether now owned or here-
after acquired, except pursuant to (a) the Credit Documents, (b) any other
agreement that does not restrict in any manner (directly of indirectly)
Liens created pursuant to the Credit Documents on property or assets of
Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (whether now owned or hereafter ac-
quired) securing the Loans or any Interest Rate Agreement and does not re-
quire the direct or indirect granting of any Lien securing any Indebtedness
or other obligation by virtue of the granting of Liens on or pledge of
property of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to secure the Loans or any
Interest Rate Agreement, and (c) any industrial revenue or development
bonds, acquisition agreement or operating leases of real property and
equipment entered into in the ordinary course of business.
8.19.  Maintenance of Corporate Separateness.  Permit any Unre-
stricted Subsidiary to (a) fail to satisfy customary corporate formalities,
including (i) the holding of regular board of directors' and shareholders'
meetings, (ii) the maintenance of separate corporate records and (iii) the
maintenance of separate bank accounts in its own name; (b) fail to act
solely in its own corporate name and through its authorized officers and
agents; (c) commingle any of its money or other assets with any money or
other assets of any Credit Party; or (d) take any action, or conduct its
affairs in a manner which is reasonably likely to result in the separate
corporate existence of the Credit Parties from the Unrestricted Subsidiar-
ies to be ignored or the assets and liabilities of any Unrestricted Sub-
sidiary being substantively consolidated with those of any Credit Party in
any bankruptcy, insolvency proceeding; or permit any Credit Party to make
any payment to any creditor of any Unrestricted Subsidiary or provide any
direct or indirect guarantee or other credit support for any Indebtedness
or other obligations of any Unrestricted Subsidiary.
8.20.  Clauses Restricting Subsidiary Distributions.  Enter
into or suffer to exist or become effective any consensual encumbrance or
restriction on the ability of any Subsidiary of Borrower to (a) make Divi-
dend Payments in respect of any Capital Stock of such Subsidiary held by,
or pay any Indebtedness owed to, Borrower or any other Subsidiary of Bor-
rower, (b) make loans or advances to, or other Investments in, Borrower or
any other Subsidiary of Borrower or (c) transfer any of its assets to Bor-
rower or any other Subsidiary of Borrower, except for such encumbrances or
restrictions existing under or by reason of (i) any restrictions existing
under the Credit Documents, (ii) any restrictions with respect to a Sub-
sidiary imposed pursuant to an agreement that has been entered into in con-
nection with the disposition of all or substantially all of the Capital
Stock or assets of such Subsidiary and (iii) the Existing Indenture or any
other Indebtedness so long as such encumbrances or restrictions, taken as a
whole, are no more restrictive than those contained in the Existing Inden-
ture.
SECTION 9.	EVENTS OF DEFAULT
Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any of the
following events:
(a)  Borrower shall fail to (i) pay any principal of any Loan
or Note when due in accordance with the terms hereof or thereof or to
reimburse the Issuing Lender in accordance with subsection 3.8 or
(ii) pay any interest on any Loan or Note or any other amount payable
under any Credit Document within three Business Days after any such
interest or other amount becomes due in accordance with the terms
thereof or hereof; or
(b)  Any representation or warranty made or deemed made by any
Credit Party in any Credit Document shall prove to have been incor-
rect in any material respect on or as of the date made or deemed
made; or
(c)  Borrower shall default in the observance or performance of
any agreement contained in subsection 7.7(a), 7.8 or 7.9 or Section 8
of this Agreement; or
(d)  Any Credit Party shall default in the observance or per-
formance of any other agreement contained in any Credit Document and
such default shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after
Borrower's receipt of written notice of such default from the Admin-
istrative Agent or any Lender; or
(e)  Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries shall
(i) default in any payment of principal of or interest on or other
amounts in respect of any Indebtedness (other than the Loans, the L/C
Obligations and any intercompany debt) or Interest Rate Agreement or
in the payment of any Contingent Obligation, beyond the period of
grace, if any, provided in the instrument or agreement under which
such Indebtedness, Interest Rate Agreement or Contingent Obligation
was created; or (ii) default in the observance or performance of any
other agreement or condition relating to any such Indebtedness, In-
terest Rate Agreement or Contingent Obligation or contained in any
instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or relating thereto, or
any other event shall occur or condition exist, the effect of which
default or other event or condition is to cause, or to permit the
holder or holders of such Indebtedness, the party or parties to such
Interest Rate Agreements or beneficiary or beneficiaries of such Con-
tingent Obligation (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or
holders or beneficiary or beneficiaries) to cause, with the giving of
notice if required, such Indebtedness to become due prior to its
stated maturity, any applicable grace period having expired, such In-
terest Rate Agreement to be terminated, any applicable grace period
having expired, or such Contingent Obligation to become payable, any
applicable grace period having expired; provided in each case that
the aggregate principal amount of all such Indebtedness, Interest
Rate Agreements and Contingent Obligations under which a default ex-
ists or which would then become due or payable equals or exceeds
$10,000,000; or
(f)  (i) Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries shall
commence any case, proceeding or other action (A) under any existing
or future law of any jurisdiction, domestic or foreign, relating to
bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or relief of debtors, seeking
to have an order for relief entered with respect to it, or seeking to
adjudicate it as bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking reorganization,
arrangement, adjustment, winding-up, liquidation, dissolution, compo-
sition or other relief with respect to it or its debts, or
(B) seeking appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other
similar official for it or for all or any substantial part of its as-
sets, or Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries shall make a
general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or (ii) there
shall be commenced against Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiar-
ies any case, proceeding or other action of a nature referred to in
clause (i) above which (A) results in the entry of an order for re-
lief or any such adjudication or appointment or (B) remains undis-
missed, undischarged or unbonded for a period of 60 days; or (iii)
there shall be commenced against Borrower or any of its Material Sub-
sidiaries any case, proceeding or other action seeking issuance of a
warrant of attachment, execution, distraint or similar process
against all or any substantial part of its assets which results in
the entry of an order for any such relief which shall not have been
vacated, discharged, or stayed or bonded pending appeal within 60
days from the entry thereof; or (iv) Borrower or any of its Material
Subsidiaries shall take any action in furtherance of, or indicating
its consent to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any of the acts set
forth in clause (i), (ii), or (iii) above; or (v) Borrower or any of
its Subsidiaries shall generally not, or shall be unable to, or shall
admit in writing its inability to, pay its debts as they become due;
or
(g)  An ERISA Event or noncompliance with respect to Foreign
Plans shall have occurred that, when taken together with all other
ERISA Events and noncompliance with Foreign Plans that have occurred,
could reasonably be likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect; or
(h)  One or more judgments or decrees shall be entered against
Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries involving in the aggre-
gate a liability (not paid or fully covered by insurance as to which
the relevant insurance company has acknowledged coverage) of
$10,000,000 or more and all such judgments or decrees shall not have
been vacated, discharged, stayed or bonded pending appeal within the
time required by the terms of such judgment; or
(i)  Any Credit Document shall cease, for any reason, to be in
full force and effect or any Credit Party or any of its Subsidiaries
shall so assert in writing, or any Security Document shall cease to
give the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties
the rights, powers and privilege purported to be created thereby or
cease to be effective to grant a perfected Lien on the Collateral de-
scribed in such Security Document with the priority purported to be
created thereby, subject to such exceptions as may be permitted
therein or herein, and in the case of any Security Agreement, such
condition shall continue unremedied for 10 days after notice thereof
to Borrower by the Administrative Agent or any Lender; or
(j)  There shall have occurred a Change of Control; or
(k)  Any non-monetary judgment, order or decree is entered
against Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries which has a Material Ad-
verse Effect, and there shall be any period of 60 consecutive days
during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by rea-
son of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect;
then, and in any such event, (x) if such event is an Event of Default
specified in clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (f) above with respect to Bor-
rower, automatically (i) the Commitments shall immediately terminate and
the Loans hereunder (with accrued interest thereon) and all other amounts
owing under this Agreement and the Notes shall immediately become due and
payable, and (ii) all obligations of Borrower in respect of the Letters of
Credit, although contingent and unmatured, shall become immediately due and
payable and the Issuing Lender's obligations to issue the Letters of Credit
shall immediately terminate and (y) if such event is any other Event of De-
fault, so long as any such Event of Default shall be continuing, either or
both of the following actions may be taken:  (i) with the consent of the
Required Lenders, the Administrative Agent may, or upon the request of the
Required Lenders, the Administrative Agent shall, by notice to Borrower,
declare the Commitments and the Issuing Lender's obligations to issue the
Letters of Credit to be terminated forthwith, whereupon the Commitments and
such obligations shall immediately terminate; and (ii) with the consent of
the Required Lenders, the Administrative Agent may, or upon the request of
the Required Lenders, the Administrative Agent shall, by notice of default
to Borrower, (a) declare all or a portion of the Loans hereunder (with ac-
crued interest thereon) and all other amounts owing under this Agreement
and the Notes to be due and payable forthwith, whereupon the same shall im-
mediately become due and payable, and (b) declare all or a portion of the
obligations of Borrower in respect of the Letters of Credit, although con-
tingent and unmatured, to be due and payable forthwith, whereupon the same
shall immediately become due and payable.  All payments under this Section
9 on account of undrawn Letters of Credit shall be made by Borrower di-
rectly to a cash collateral account established by the Administrative Agent
for such purpose for application to Borrower's reimbursement obligations
under subsection 3.8 as drafts are presented under the Letters of Credit,
(x) with the balance, if any, to be applied to Borrower's obligations under
this Agreement and the Notes as the Administrative Agent shall determine
with the approval of the Required Lenders and (y) after all Letters of
Credit have terminated in accordance with their terms (or been fully drawn
upon), and after all obligations under this Agreement and the Notes have
been paid in full (other than ongoing indemnity obligations where no demand
for payment has been made), any excess amounts on deposit shall be returned
to Borrower.  Except as expressly provided above in this Section 9, pre-
sentment, demand, protest and all other notices of any kind are hereby ex-
pressly waived.
SECTION 10.	THE AGENTS AND THE ISSUING LENDER
10.1.  Appointment.  Each Lender hereby irrevocably designates
and appoints UBS AG, Stamford Branch as the Administrative Agent under this
Agreement and irrevocably authorizes UBS AG, Stamford Branch, as Adminis-
trative Agent for such Lender, to take such action on its behalf under the
provisions of the Credit Documents and to exercise such powers and perform
such duties as are expressly delegated to the Administrative Agent by the
terms of the Credit Documents, together with such other powers as are rea-
sonably incidental thereto.  Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary
elsewhere in this Agreement, no Agent shall have any duties or responsi-
bilities, except those expressly set forth herein, or any fiduciary rela-
tionship with any Lender, and no implied covenants, functions, responsi-
bilities, duties, obligations or liabilities shall be read into the Credit
Documents or otherwise exist against any Agent.
10.2.  Delegation of Duties.  The Administrative Agent may exe-
cute any of its duties under this Agreement and each of the other Credit
Documents by or through agents or attorneys-in-fact and shall be entitled
to advice of counsel concerning all matters pertaining to such duties.  The
Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or miscon-
duct of any agents or attorneys-in-fact selected by it with reasonable
care, except as otherwise provided in subsection 10.3.
10.3.  Exculpatory Provisions.  No Agent nor any of its offi-
cers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or Affiliates shall
be (i) liable for any action lawfully taken or omitted to be taken by it or
such Person under or in connection with the Credit Documents (except for
its or such Person's own gross negligence or willful misconduct), or (ii)
responsible in any manner to any of the Lenders for any recitals, state-
ments, representations or warranties made by any Credit Party or any offi-
cer thereof contained in the Credit Documents or in any certificate, re-
port, statement or other document referred to or provided for in, or re-
ceived by the Agents under or in connection with, the Credit Documents or
for the value, validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or suf-
ficiency of the Credit Documents or for any failure of any Credit Party to
perform its obligations thereunder.  The Agents shall not be under any ob-
ligation to any Lender to ascertain or to inquire as to the observance or
performance of any of the agreements contained in, or conditions of, any
Credit Document, or to inspect the properties, books or records of any
Credit Party.
10.4.  Reliance by Agents.  The Administrative Agent shall be
entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in relying, upon any Note,
entries maintained in the Register, writing, resolution, notice, consent,
certificate, affidavit, letter, cablegram, telegram, telecopy, telex or
teletype message, statement, order or other document or conversation be-
lieved by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or
made by the proper Person or Persons and upon advice and statements of le-
gal counsel (including, without limitation, counsel to Borrower), independ-
ent accountants and other experts selected by the Administrative Agent.
The Administrative Agent may deem and treat the payee of any Note as the
owner thereof for all purposes unless a written notice of assignment, nego-
tiation or transfer thereof shall have been filed with the Administrative
Agent.  The Administrative Agent shall be fully justified in failing or re-
fusing to take any action under any Credit Document unless it shall first
receive such advice or concurrence of the Required Lenders (or, where a
higher percentage of the Lenders is expressly required hereunder, such
Lenders) as it deems appropriate or it shall first be indemnified to its
satisfaction by the Lenders against any and all liability and expense which
may be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to take any such
action.  The Administrative Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in
acting, or in refraining from acting, under any Credit Document in accor-
dance with a request of the Required Lenders (unless a higher percentage of
Lenders is expressly required), and such request and any action taken or
failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding upon all the Lenders and
all future holders of the Notes.
10.5.  Notice of Default.  No Agent shall be deemed to have
knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default
hereunder unless such Agent has received written notice from an Agent, a
Lender or Borrower or any other Credit Party referring to this Agreement,
describing such Default or Event of Default and stating that such notice is
a "notice of default".  In the event that the Administrative Agent receives
such a notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly give notice thereof
to the Lenders.  The Administrative Agent shall take such action with re-
spect to such Default or Event of Default as shall be reasonably directed
by the Required Lenders; provided that unless and until the Administrative
Agent shall have received such directions, the Administrative Agent may
(but shall not be obligated to) take such action, or refrain from taking
such action, with respect to such Default or Event of Default as it shall
deem advisable in the best interests of the Lenders.
10.6.  Non-Reliance on Agents and Other Lenders.  Each Lender
expressly acknowledges that no Agent nor any officers, directors, employ-
ees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or Affiliates thereof has made any represen-
tations or warranties to it and that no act by any Agent hereafter taken,
including any review of the affairs of the Credit Parties, shall be deemed
to constitute any representation or warranty by such Agent to any Lender.
Each Lender represents to the Agents that it has, independently and without
reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender, and based on such documents
and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own appraisal of and
investigation into the business, operations, property, financial and other
condition and creditworthiness of Borrower and its Subsidiaries and made
its own decision to make its Loans hereunder and enter into this Agreement.
Each Lender also represents that it will, independently and without reli-
ance upon any Agent or any other Lender, and based on such documents and
information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its
own credit analysis, appraisals and decisions in taking or not taking ac-
tion under the Credit Documents, and to make such investigation as it deems
necessary to inform itself as to the business, operations, property, finan-
cial and other condition and creditworthiness of Borrower and its Subsidi-
aries.  Except for notices, reports and other documents expressly required
to be furnished to the Lenders by the Administrative Agent hereunder, no
Agent shall have any duty or responsibility to provide any Lender with any
credit or other information concerning the business, operations, property,
financial and other condition or creditworthiness of the Credit Parties
which may come into the possession of such Agent or any of its officers,
directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or Affiliates.
10.7.  Indemnification.  The Lenders agree to indemnify the
Agents in their capacity as such (to the extent not reimbursed by the
Credit Parties and without limiting the obligation of the Credit Parties to
do so), ratably according to the respective amounts of their respective
Commitments (or, to the extent such Commitments have been terminated, ac-
cording to the respective outstanding principal amounts of the Loans and
the L/C Obligations and the respective obligations, whether as Issuing
Lender or a Participating Lender, under the Letter of Credit), from and
against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties,
actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind
whatsoever which may at any time (whether before or after the payment of
the Loans) be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against such Agent in any
way relating to or arising out of the Commitments, the Credit Documents or
any documents contemplated by or referred to herein or the transactions
contemplated hereby or any action taken or omitted by such Agent under or
in connection with any of the foregoing; provided that no Lender shall be
liable for the payment of any portion of such liabilities, obligations,
losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or
disbursements resulting solely from such Agent's gross negligence or will-
ful misconduct.  The agreements in this subsection 10.7 shall survive the
repayment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.
10.8.  Agent in Its Individual Capacity.  Each Agent and its
Affiliates may make loans to, accept deposits from and generally engage in
any kind of business with any Credit Party as though such Agent were not an
Agent hereunder.  With respect to Loans made or renewed by it and with re-
spect to any Letter of Credit issued or participated in by it, each Agent
shall have the same rights and powers, duties and liabilities under the
Credit Documents as any Lender and may exercise the same as though it were
not an Agent, and the terms "Lender" and "Lenders" shall include such Agent
in its individual capacity.
10.9.  Successor Administrative Agent.  The Administrative
Agent may resign as Administrative Agent upon 30 days' notice to the Lend-
ers and Borrower.  If the Administrative Agent shall resign as Administra-
tive Agent under the Credit Documents, then the Required Lenders shall ap-
point from among the Lenders a successor agent for the Lenders which suc-
cessor agent shall, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is con-
tinuing, be approved by Borrower, which shall not unreasonably withhold or
delay its approval, whereupon such successor agent shall succeed to the
rights, powers and duties of the Administrative Agent, and the term "Admin-
istrative Agent" shall mean such successor agent effective upon such ap-
pointment and approval, and the former Administrative Agent's rights, pow-
ers and duties as Administrative Agent shall be terminated, without any
other or further act or deed on the part of such former Administrative
Agent or any of the parties to this Agreement or any holders of the Notes.
If no successor agent has accepted appointment as the applicable Adminis-
trative Agent by the date which is 30 days following the retiring Adminis-
trative Agent's notice of registration, the retiring Administrative Agent's
registration shall nevertheless thereupon become effective and the Lenders
shall perform all of the duties of such Administrative Agent hereunder un-
til such time, if any, as the Required Lenders appoint a successor agent as
provided for above.  After any retiring Administrative Agent's resignation
hereunder as Administrative Agent, the provisions of this Section 10 shall
inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it
while it was the Administrative Agent under the Credit Documents.
10.10.  Issuing Lender as Issuer of Letters of Credit.  Each
Revolving Credit Lender hereby acknowledges that the provisions of this
Section 10 shall apply to the Issuing Lender, in its capacity as issuer of
the Letters of Credit, in the same manner as such provisions are expressly
stated to apply to the Administrative Agent, except that obligations to in-
demnify the Issuing Lender shall be ratable among the Revolving Credit
Lenders in accordance with their respective Revolving Credit Commitments
(or, if the Revolving Credit Commitments have been terminated, the out-
standing principal amount of their respective Revolving Credit Loans and
L/C Obligations and their respective participating interests in the out-
standing Letters of Credit).
10.11.  Other Agents.  Each Lender hereby acknowledges that
neither the Lead Arranger nor any other Lender designated as "Agent"
hereunder or herein or on any Credit Document hereof has any liability
hereunder other than its capacity as a Lender.  Each party hereto agrees
that each Agent not a signatory hereto shall be a third party beneficiary
of the rights herein set forth applicable to such Agent.
SECTION 11.	MISCELLANEOUS
11.1.  Amendments and Waivers.  Except as otherwise expressly
set forth in this Agreement, no Credit Document nor any terms thereof may
be amended, supplemented, waived or modified except in accordance with the
provisions of this subsection 11.1.  With the written consent of the Re-
quired Lenders, the Administrative Agent (acting at the request of the Re-
quired Lenders) and the applicable Credit Parties or their Subsidiaries
may, from time to time, enter into written amendments, supplements or modi-
fications hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to any Credit
Document to which they are parties or changing in any manner the rights of
the Lenders or of any such Credit Party or its Subsidiaries thereunder or
waiving, on such terms and conditions as the Administrative Agent may spec-
ify in such instrument, any of the requirements of any such Credit Document
or any Default or Event of Default and its consequences; provided that:
(a)  no such waiver and no such amendment, supplement or modi-
fication shall (i) release all or substantially all of the Collateral
without the written consent of all Lenders or (ii) release Collateral
not required or permitted by any Credit Document to be released and
which, in the aggregate with all other Collateral released pursuant
to this clause (a)(ii) (other than Collateral released pursuant to
the proviso to this clause (a)) during the calendar year in which
such proposed release would be effected and the immediately preceding
calendar year, has fair market value on the proposed date of release
in excess of 20% of the fair market value of all Collateral (includ-
ing any Guarantee) on such date without the written consent of the
Supermajority Lenders; provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing,
this paragraph (a) shall not be applicable to and no consent of the
Lenders or the Administrative Agent shall be required for
(1) releases of Collateral in connection with any dispositions per-
mitted by subsection 8.5, (2) releases of Collateral in accordance
with subsection 11.11, (3) releases of Collateral constituting prop-
erty leased to Borrower or any Subsidiary of Borrower in a transac-
tion permitted under this Agreement, (4) releases of Collateral con-
sisting of an instrument evidencing Indebtedness or other debt in-
strument, if the Indebtedness evidenced thereby has been paid in full
or (5) upon the reincorporation of Borrower or any Subsidiary in a
new jurisdiction or the creation of a new Subsidiary of Borrower, any
release of Collateral in connection with the transfer of such re-
leased Collateral to such reincorporated entity or new Subsidiary in
compliance with subsection 8.4 so long as the Administrative Agent,
in its sole discretion, determines that such release and transfer,
together with any grant and perfection of a new Lien therein in favor
of the Administrative Agent, will cause no material impairment of the
value of the Collateral taken as a whole, after giving effect to such
release and transfer;
(b)  no such waiver and no such amendment, supplement or modi-
fication shall forgive the principal amount or extend the final
scheduled date of maturity of any Loan or Note, or extend the stated
expiration date of any Letter of Credit beyond the Revolving Credit
Termination Date as then in effect, or reduce the stated rate of any
interest, fee or letter of credit commission payable hereunder (ex-
cept in connection with the waiver of applicability of any post-
default increase in interests, fees or letter of credit commission,
and it being further understood and agreed that any amendment or
modification to the financial definitions in this Agreement shall not
constitute a reduction in the rate of interest, fees or letter of
credit commission for the purposes of this clause (b)) or extend the
scheduled date of any payment of any interest, fee or commitment com-
mission, or increase the amount of the Commitments (it being under-
stood that waivers or modifications of conditions precedent, cove-
nants, Defaults or Events of Default or of mandatory reductions in
the Commitments shall not constitute an increase in the Commitments
of any Lender), or modify subsection 11.7(a) or subsection 12.3, in
each case without the written consent of each Lender whose obliga-
tions or Revolving Credit Commitments, as the case may be, held
hereunder are being directly modified thereby;
(c)  no such waiver and no such amendment, supplement or modi-
fication shall amend, modify or waive any provision of this subsec-
tion 11.1 (except for technical amendments with respect to additional
extensions of credit pursuant to this Agreement which afford the pro-
tections to such additional extensions of credit of the type provided
to the Loans and the Commitments on the Closing Date) or reduce any
percentage specified in the definition of Required Lenders or Super-
majority Facility Lenders (it being understood that, with the written
consent of the Required Lenders or Supermajority Facility Lenders, as
the case may be, additional extensions of credit pursuant to this
Agreement may be included in the determination of the Required Lend-
ers or Supermajority Facility Lenders, as the case may be, on sub-
stantially the same basis as the extensions of Loans and Revolving
Credit Commitments are included in the Closing Date), or consent to
the assignment or transfer by Borrower of any of its rights and obli-
gations under this Agreement and the other Credit Documents, in each
case without the written consent of all Lenders;
(d)  no such waiver and no such amendment, supplement or modi-
fication shall reduce the percentage specified in the definition of
Majority Facility Lenders without the written consent of all Lenders
under each affected Facility;
(e)  no such waiver and no such amendment, supplement or modi-
fication shall reduce the amount of, or extend the date of, any
scheduled amortization payment in respect of any Tranche B Term Loan
without the written consent of the Supermajority Facility Lenders
holding Tranche B Term Loans, or amend the definition of Supermajor-
ity Facility Lenders without the consent of the Supermajority Facil-
ity Lenders pursuant to each Facility which has scheduled amortiza-
tions at the time of such modification (it being understood that,
with the consent of the Required Lenders, additional extensions of
credit pursuant to this Agreement may be included in the determina-
tion of the Supermajority Facility Lenders with respect to a given
Facility); and
(f)  no such waiver and no such amendment, supplement or modi-
fication affecting the then Administrative Agent or Issuing Lender
shall amend, modify or waive any provision of Section 10 without the
written consent of such Administrative Agent or Issuing Lender, as
the case may be.
Any such waiver and any such amendment, supplement or modification de-
scribed in this subsection 11.1 shall apply equally to each of the Lenders
and shall be binding upon each Credit Party and its Subsidiaries, the Lend-
ers, the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Lender and all future holders
of the Notes and the Loans.  Any extension of a Letter of Credit by the Is-
suing Lender shall be treated hereunder as a new Letter of Credit.  In the
case of any waiver, the Credit Parties, the Lenders, the Administrative
Agent and Issuing Lender shall be restored to their former position and
rights hereunder and under the outstanding Notes, and any Default or Event
of Default waived shall be deemed to be cured and not continuing; but no
such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or Event of De-
fault, or impair any right consequent thereon unless specified in such
waiver.
11.2.  Notices.  All notices, requests and demands to or upon
the respective parties hereto to be effective shall be in writing (includ-
ing by telecopy or telex, if one is listed), and, unless otherwise ex-
pressly provided herein, shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when delivered by hand, or three Business Days after being deposited in the
mail, postage prepaid, or, in the case of telecopy notice, when sent, con-
firmation of receipt received, or, in the case of telex notice, when sent,
answerback received, addressed as follows in the case of Borrower or any
other Credit Party, the Administrative Agent, and as set forth in Schedule
I in the case of any Lender, or to such other address as may be hereafter
notified by the respective parties hereto and any future holders of the
Notes:
Borrower:	Hollywood Entertainment Corporation
9275 S.W. Peyton Lane
Wilsonville, Oregon  97070
Attention:	Treasurer
Telecopy:	(503) 570-5037
Telephone:	(503) 570-1600
With a copy to:	Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison LLP
300 Crescent Court, Suite 1400
Dallas, Texas  75201
Attention:	Mark E. Betzen
Telecopy:	(214) 468-3704
Telephone:	(214) 468-3700
The Administrative Agent
and Swing Line Lender:	UBS AG, Stamford Branch
677 Washington Boulevard
Stamford, Connecticut  06901
Attention:  Juan Zuniga
Telecopy:  (203) 719-3888
Telephone: (203) 719-5993
With a copy to:	Cahill Gordon & Reindel
80 Pine Street
New York, New York  10005
Attention:	Michael E. Michetti
Telecopy:	(212) 269-5420
Telephone:	(212) 701-3000
provided that any notice, request or demand to or upon the Administrative
Agent or the Lenders pursuant to subsections 3.4, 3.5, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 and
4.4 shall not be effective until received and; provided, further, that the
failure to provide the copies of notices to Borrower provided for in this
subsection 11.2 shall not result in any liability to the Administrative
Agent.
11.3.  No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies.  No failure to exercise
and no delay in exercising, on the part of the Administrative Agent or any
Lender, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder, shall operate as a
waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, rem-
edy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise
thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege.
The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative
and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided
by law.
11.4.  Survival of Representations and Warranties.  All repre-
sentations and warranties made hereunder and in any document, certificate
or statement delivered pursuant hereto or in connection herewith shall sur-
vive the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Letters of Credit
and the Notes and the making of the extensions of credit hereunder.
11.5.  Indemnification; Payment of Expenses and Taxes.
(a)  Borrower agrees to pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses in-
curred by the Administrative Agent, the Lead Arranger and their respective
Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of
counsel for the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arranger in connection
with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the
preparation and administration of the Credit Documents or any amendments,
modifications or waivers of the provisions thereof (whether or not the
transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated or any
such amendment, modification or waiver becomes effective), (ii) all reason-
able out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Issuing Lenders in connection
with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit
or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all reasonable out-of-pocket
expenses incurred by the Agents, the Lead Arranger, the Issuing Lenders or
any Lender, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any
counsel for the Agents, the Lead Arranger, the Issuing Lenders or any
Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of their rights in
connection with the Credit Documents, including their rights under this
subsection 11.5, or in connection with the Loans made, or Letters of Credit
issued or drawn hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses in-
curred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such
Loans or Letters of Credit.
(b)  Borrower agrees to indemnify the Agents, the Lead Ar-
ranger, the Issuing Lender and each Lender, and each of their Affiliates,
officers, directors and controlled parties of any of the foregoing Persons
(each such Person being called an "Indemnitee") against, and hold each In-
demnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities
and related expenses, including the reasonable fees, charges and disburse-
ments of any counsel for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against
any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i)
the execution or delivery of any Credit Document or any other agreement or
instrument contemplated hereby, the performance by the parties to the
Credit Documents of their respective obligations thereunder or the consum-
mation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby,
(ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds therefrom (in-
cluding any refusal by an Issuing Lenders to honor a demand for payment un-
der a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such
demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit),
(iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on,
at, under or from any Mortgaged Property or any other property currently or
formerly owned, leased or otherwise operated by Borrower or any of its Sub-
sidiaries, or any liability under or violation of Environmental Laws re-
lated in any way to Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, (iv) any actual or
prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any
of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and
regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; provided that such
indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that
such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are deter-
mined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judg-
ment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of
such Indemnitees or (v) any and all recording and filing fees and any and
all liabilities with respect to, or resulting from any delay in paying,
stamp, excise and other similar taxes (other than withholding taxes), if
any, which may be payable or determined to be payable in connection with
the execution and delivery of, or consummation of any of the transactions
contemplated by, or any amendment, supplement or modification of, or any
waiver or consent under or in respect of, any Credit Document and any such
other documents.
(c)  To the extent that Borrower fails to pay any amount re-
quired to be paid by it to an Agent or an Issuing Lender under paragraph
(a) or (b) of this subsection 11.5, each Lender severally agrees to pay to
such Agent or such Issuing Lender, as the case may be, such Lender's pro
rata share (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed ex-
pense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; provided that
the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or
related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against
such Agent or such Issuing Lender in its capacity as such.  For purposes
hereof, a Lender's "pro rata share" shall be determined based upon its
share of the sum of the aggregate amount of the total Loans and Commitments
at the time.
(d)  To the extent permitted by applicable law, Borrower shall
not assert, and Borrower hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee,
on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or puni-
tive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in
connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or in-
strument contemplated hereby, the Transactions, any Loan, Letter of Credit
or the use of the proceeds thereof.
(e)  All amounts due under this subsection 11.5 shall be pay-
able promptly after written demand therefor.
11.6.  Successors and Assigns; Participations and Assignments.
(a)  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Bor-
rower, the Lenders, each Agent, all future holders of the Notes and the
Loans, and their respective successors and assigns, except that Borrower
may not assign or transfer any of its rights or obligations under this
Agreement without the prior written consent of each Lender.
(b)  Any Lender may, in the ordinary course of its commercial
banking, lending or investment business and in accordance with applicable
law, at any time sell to one or more banks or other entities ("Partici-
pants") participating interests in any Loan owing to such Lender, any par-
ticipating interest in the Letters of Credit of such Lender, any Note held
by such Lender, any Commitment of such Lender or any other interest of such
Lender hereunder.  In the event of any such sale by a Lender of participat-
ing interests to a Participant, such Lender's obligations under this Agree-
ment to the other parties to this Agreement shall remain unchanged, such
Lender shall remain solely responsible for the performance thereof, such
Lender shall remain the holder of any such Note for all purposes under this
Agreement and Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall continue to deal
solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's
rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Credit Documents.
Borrower agrees that if amounts outstanding under this Agreement and the
Notes are due and unpaid, or shall have been declared or shall have become
due and payable upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, each Partici-
pant shall be deemed to have the right of setoff in respect of its partici-
pating interest in amounts owing under this Agreement and any Note to the
same extent as if the amount of its participating interest were owing di-
rectly to it as a Lender under this Agreement or any Note; provided that
such right of setoff shall be subject to the obligation of such Participant
to share with the Lenders, and the Lenders agree to share with such Par-
ticipant, as provided in subsection 11.7.  Borrower also agrees that each
Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of subsections 3.10, 4.11 and
4.12 with respect to its participation in the Letters of Credit and in the
Commitments and the Loans outstanding from time to time as if it were a
Lender; provided that no Participant shall be entitled to receive any
greater amount pursuant to any such subsection than the transferor Lender
would have been entitled to receive in respect of the amount of the par-
ticipation transferred by such transferor Lender to such Participant had no
such transfer occurred.  Each Lender agrees that the participation agree-
ment pursuant to which any Participant acquires its participating interest
(or any other document) may afford voting rights to such Participant, or
any right to instruct such Lender with respect to voting hereunder, only
with respect to matters requiring the consent of either all of the Lenders
hereunder or all of the Lenders holding the relevant Tranche B Term Loans
or Revolving Credit Commitments subject to such participation.
(c)  Subject to paragraph (g) of this subsection 11.6, any
Lender may at any time and from time to time, in the ordinary course of its
commercial banking, lending or investment business and in accordance with
applicable law,
	(i)	assign all or any part of its rights and obligations un-
der this Agreement relating to the Tranche B Term Loans and the
Tranche B Term Notes to any Lender or any Approved Fund or Affiliate
of any Lender pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance executed by
such Assignee and such assigning Lender, and delivered to the Admin-
istrative Agent (for its acceptance and recording in the Register (as
defined below));
	(ii)	with the consent of the Administrative Agent (which con-
sent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) assign all or any
part of its rights and obligations under this Agreement relating to
the Revolving Credit Loans or the Revolving Credit Commitment and the
Revolving Credit Notes to any Lender or any Affiliate thereof pursu-
ant to an Assignment and Acceptance executed by such Assignee and
such assigning Lender and the Administrative Agent, and delivered to
the Administrative Agent for its acceptance and recording in the Reg-
ister; and
	(iii)	with the consent of Borrower (which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed and which consent shall not be
needed in connection with assignments by any Lender to any other
Lender or an Approved Fund or Affiliate of any Lender or by UBS AG,
Stamford Branch or any of its Affiliates in connection with the syn-
dication of the Loans and Commitments or at any time at which an
Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing) and of the
Administrative Agent (which consent shall not be unreasonably with-
held or delayed) assign to one or more additional banks, mutual funds
or financial institutions or entities (each, an "Assignee"), all or
any part of its rights and obligations under this Agreement and the
Notes pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance executed by such As-
signee and such assigning Lender (and, in the case of an Assignee
that is not then a Lender or an Approved Fund or Affiliate of any
Lender, by Borrower (to the extent such assignment is not in connec-
tion with assignments by UBS AG, Stamford Branch or any of its Af-
filiates in connection with the syndication of the Loans and Commit-
ments and so long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be
continuing) and the Administrative Agent), and delivered to the Ad-
ministrative Agent for its acceptance and recording in the Register.
Each sale pursuant to clause (iii) of this subsection 11.6(c) shall be in a
principal amount of at least $1,000,000 (or such lesser amounts as the Ad-
ministrative Agent and Borrower may determine) unless the assigning Lender
is transferring all of its rights and obligations.  In the event of a sale
of less than all of such rights and obligations, such Lender after any such
sale shall retain Commitments and/or Loans and/or L/C Participating Inter-
ests aggregating at least $1,000,000 (or in such lesser amount as the Ad-
ministrative Agent and Borrower may determine).  Upon such execution, de-
livery, acceptance and recording, from and after the effective date deter-
mined pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, (x) the Assignee thereun-
der shall be a party hereto and, to the extent provided in such Assignment
and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender hereunder with
a Commitment as set forth therein, and (y) the assigning Lender thereunder
shall, to the extent of the interest transferred, as reflected in such As-
signment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this Agree-
ment (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all or the
remaining portion of a transferor Lender's rights and obligations under
this Agreement, such transferor Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but
shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of the indemnification provi-
sions set forth in subsection 11.5).
(d)  The Administrative Agent, which for purposes of this sub-
section 11.6(d) only shall be deemed to be the agent of Borrower, shall
maintain at the address of the Administrative Agent referred to in subsec-
tion 11.2 a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it and a
register (the "Register") for the recordation of the names and addresses of
the Lenders and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans ow-
ing to, each Lender from time to time.  The entries in the Register shall
be conclusive in the absence of manifest error, and Borrower, the Adminis-
trative Agent and the Lenders shall treat each Person whose name is re-
corded in the Register as the owner of a Loan or other obligation hereunder
as the owner thereof for all purposes of this Agreement and the other
Credit Documents, notwithstanding any notice to the contrary.  Any assign-
ment of any Loan or other obligation hereunder shall be effective only upon
appropriate entries with respect thereto being made in the Register.  The
Register shall be available for inspection by Borrower or any Lender at any
reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
(e)  Upon its receipt of an Assignment and Acceptance executed
by an assigning Lender and an Assignee (and by Borrower and the Administra-
tive Agent to the extent required by paragraph (c) of this subsection
11.6), together with payment to the Administrative Agent of a registration
and processing fee of $3,500 if the Assignee is not a Lender prior to the
execution of such Assignment and Acceptance and $1,000 otherwise, the Ad-
ministrative Agent shall (i) promptly accept such Assignment and Acceptance
and (ii) on the effective date determined pursuant thereto record the in-
formation contained therein in the Register and give notice of such accep-
tance and recordation to the Lenders and Borrower (and no such assignment
shall become effective unless and until so recorded); provided that, in the
case of contemporaneous assignments by a Lender to more than one fund man-
aged by the same investment advisor or an Affiliate of such investment ad-
visor (which funds are not then Lenders hereunder), only a single $3,500
fee shall be payable for all such contemporaneous assignments.  On or prior
to such effective date, Borrower at its own expense, shall execute and de-
liver to the Administrative Agent (in exchange for any or all of the
Tranche B Term Loan Notes or Revolving Credit Notes of the assigning
Lender, if any (or if any Note is lost, an affidavit of such loss and in-
demnity satisfactory to Borrower)) new Term Loan Notes or Revolving Credit
Notes, as the case may be, to the order of such Assignee (if requested) in
an amount equal to the Revolving Credit Commitment or the Tranche B Term
Loans, as the case may be, assumed by it pursuant to such Assignment and
Acceptance and, if the assigning Lender has retained a Commitment or any
Term Loans hereunder, new Tranche B Term Loan Notes or Revolving Credit
Notes, as the case may be, to the order of the assigning Lender in an
amount equal to the Commitment or such Tranche B Term Loans, as the case
may be, retained by it hereunder (if requested).  Such new Notes shall be
dated the Closing Date and shall otherwise be in the form of the Notes re-
placed thereby.
(f)  Each Agent and the Lenders agree that they will use rea-
sonable efforts to protect the confidentiality of any confidential informa-
tion concerning Borrower and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates.  Notwith-
standing the foregoing, Borrower authorizes each Lender to disclose (i) to
its employees, officers, Affiliates and advisors, who shall be bound by the
confidentiality provisions hereof, (ii) to any regulatory authority as re-
quired by law or to any quasi-regulatory authority (including the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners), (iii) in connection with any en-
forcement or other legal action, (iv) to any Participant or Assignee (each,
a "Transferee") and any prospective Transferee any and all information in
such Lender's possession concerning Borrower and its Subsidiaries which has
been delivered to such Lender by or on behalf of Borrower pursuant to this
Agreement or which has been delivered to such Lender by or on behalf of
Borrower in connection with such Lender's credit evaluation of Borrower and
its Subsidiaries prior to becoming a party to this Agreement; provided that
each Lender shall cause its respective prospective and actual Transferees
to agree in writing to protect the confidentiality of any confidential in-
formation concerning Borrower and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates, (v) as
has become generally available to the public, (vi) as may be required or
appropriate in any report, statement or testimony submitted to any munici-
pal, state or federal regulatory body having or claiming to have jurisdic-
tion over such party or to the Board or the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration or similar organizations (whether in the United States or else-
where) or their successors, and (vii) as may be required or appropriate in
response to any summons or subpoena or in connection with any litigation or
regulatory proceeding; provided, however, that Borrower acknowledges that
the Administrative Agent has disclosed and may continue to disclose such
information as the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion determines
is appropriate to the Lenders from time to time.
(g)  If, pursuant to this subsection 11.6, any interest in this
Agreement or any Note is transferred to any Transferee which is organized
under the laws of any jurisdiction other than the United States or any
State thereof, the transferor Lender shall cause such Transferee, concur-
rently with the effectiveness of such transfer, to comply with the terms of
this Agreement including without limitation subsection 4.11(d).
(h)  For avoidance of doubt, the parties to this Agreement ac-
knowledge that the provisions of this subsection 11.6 concerning assign-
ments of Loans and Notes relate only to absolute assignments and that such
provisions do not prohibit assignments creating security interests, includ-
ing, without limitation, any pledge or assignment by a Lender of any Loan
or Note to any Federal Reserve Bank in accordance with applicable law; pro-
vided that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall re-
lease a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such
pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto. In the case of any
Lender that is a fund that invests in bank loans, such Lender may, without
the consent of the Borrower or Administrative Agent, collaterally assign or
pledge all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement, including the
Loans and Notes or any other instrument evidencing its rights as a Lender
under this Agreement, to any holder of, trustee for, or any other represen-
tative of holders of, obligations owed or securities issued, by such fund,
as security for such obligations or securities; provided that any foreclo-
sure or similar action by such trustee or representative shall be subject
to the provisions of this Section 11.6 concerning assignments and shall not
be effective to transfer any rights under this Agreement or in any Loan,
Note or other instrument evidencing its rights as a Lender under this
Agreement unless the requirements of Section 11.6 concerning assignments
are fully satisfied.
(i)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein,
any Lender (the "Granting Lender") may grant to a special purpose funding
vehicle (an "SPV"), identified as such in writing from time to time by the
Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and Borrower, the option to
provide to Borrower all or any part of any Loan that the Granting Lender
would otherwise be obligated to make pursuant to this Agreement; provided
that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPV to make
any Loan, (ii) if an SPV elects not to exercise such option or otherwise
fails to provide all or any part of such Loan, the Granting Lender shall be
obligated to make such Loan pursuant to the terms hereof.  The making of an
Loan by an SPV hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting
Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such Granting
Lender.  Each party hereto hereby agrees that no SPV shall be liable for
any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement (all li-
ability for which shall remain with the Granting Lender).  In furtherance
of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall
survive the termination of this Agreement) that, prior to the date that is
one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding commer-
cial paper or other senior indebtedness of any SPV, it will not institute
against, or join any other person in instituting against, such SPV any
bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceed-
ings under the laws of the United States or any State thereof.  In addi-
tion, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this subsection
11.6(i), any SPV may (i) with notice to, but without the prior written con-
sent of, Borrower and the Administrative Agent and without paying any proc-
essing fee therefor, assign all or a portion of its interests in any Loans
to the Granting Lender or to any financial institutions (consented to in
writing by the Borrower and Administrative Agent) providing liquidity
and/or credit support to or for the account of such SPV to support the
funding or maintenance of Loans and (ii) disclose on a confidential basis,
subject to and in accordance with subsection 11.6(f), any information re-
lating to its Loans to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or pro-
vider of any surety, guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such
SPV.  This section may not be amended without the written consent of the
SPV.
11.7.  Adjustments; Set-off.  (a)  If any relevant Lender (a
"benefitted Lender") shall at any time receive any payment of all or part
of any of its Loans or L/C Participating Interests, as the case may be, or
interest thereon, or receive any collateral in respect thereof (whether
voluntarily or involuntarily, by set-off, pursuant to events or proceedings
of the nature referred to in clause (f) of Section 9, or otherwise) in a
greater proportion than any such payment to and collateral received by any
other relevant Lender (other than in accordance with any provision hereof
expressly providing for payments to be made only to an individual Lender or
to the Lenders of a particular Facility), if any, in respect of such other
relevant Lender's Loans or L/C Participating Interests, as the case may be,
or interest thereon, such benefitted Lender shall purchase for cash from
the other relevant Lenders such portion of each such other relevant
Lender's Loans or L/C Participating Interests, as the case may be, or shall
provide such other relevant Lenders with the benefits of any such collat-
eral, or the proceeds thereof, as shall be necessary to cause such benefit-
ted Lender to share the excess payment or benefits of such collateral or
proceeds ratably with each of the relevant Lenders; provided that if all or
any portion of such excess payment or benefits is thereafter recovered from
such benefitted Lender, such purchase shall be rescinded, and the purchase
price and benefits returned, to the extent of such recovery, but without
interest.  Borrower agrees that each Lender so purchasing a portion of an-
other Lender's Loans and/or L/C Participating Interests may exercise all
rights of payment (including, without limitation, rights of set-off) with
respect to such portion as fully as if such Lender were the direct holder
of such portion.  The Administrative Agent shall promptly give Borrower no-
tice of any set-off; provided that the failure to give such notice shall
not affect the validity of such set-off.
(b)  In addition to any rights and remedies of the Lenders pro-
vided by law, each Lender shall have the right, without prior notice to
Borrower, any such notice being expressly waived by Borrower to the extent
permitted by applicable law, upon (i) the filing of a petition under any of
the provisions of the federal Bankruptcy Code or amendments thereto, by or
against; (ii) the making of an assignment for the benefit of creditors by;
(iii) the application for the appointment, or the appointment, of any re-
ceiver of, or of any substantial portion of the property of; (iv) the issu-
ance of any execution against any substantial portion of the property of;
(v) the issuance of a subpoena or order, in supplementary proceedings,
against or with respect to any substantial portion of the property of; or
(vi) the issuance of a warrant of attachment against any substantial por-
tion of the property of Borrower to set off and apply against any indebted-
ness, whether matured or unmatured, of Borrower to such Lender, any amount
owing from such Lender to Borrower, at or at any time after, the happening
of any of the above mentioned events.  As security for such indebtedness,
Borrower hereby grants to each Lender a continuing security interest in any
and all deposits, accounts or moneys of Borrower then or thereafter main-
tained with such Lender, subject in each case to subsection 11.7(a) of this
Agreement.  The aforesaid right of set-off may, to the extent permitted by
applicable law, be exercised by such Lender against Borrower or against any
trustee in bankruptcy, debtor in possession, assignee for the benefit of
creditors, receiver or execution, judgment or attachment creditor of Bor-
rower, or against anyone else claiming through or against Borrower or such
trustee in bankruptcy, debtor in possession, assignee for the benefit of
creditors, receiver, or execution, judgment or attachment creditor, not-
withstanding the fact that such right of set-off shall not have been exer-
cised by such Lender prior to the making, filing or issuance, or service
upon such Lender of, or of notice of, any such petition; assignment for the
benefit of creditors; appointment or application for the appointment of a
receiver; or issuance of execution, subpoena, order or warrant.  Each
Lender agrees promptly to notify Borrower and the Administrative Agent af-
ter any such set-off and application made by such Lender; provided that the
failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off
and application.
11.8.  Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed by one or
more of the parties to this Agreement on any number of separate counter-
parts and all of said counterparts taken together shall be deemed to con-
stitute one and the same instrument.  A set of the copies of this Agreement
signed by all the parties shall be lodged with Borrower and the Administra-
tive Agent.  This Agreement shall become effective with respect to Bor-
rower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders when the Administrative
Agent shall have received copies of this Agreement executed by Borrower,
the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, or, in the case of any Lender,
shall have received telephonic confirmation from such Lender stating that
such Lender has executed counterparts of this Agreement or the signature
pages hereto and sent the same to the Administrative Agent.
11.9.  Governing Law; Third Party Rights.  This Agreement and
the Notes and the rights and obligations of the parties under this Agree-
ment and the Notes shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in
accordance with, the law of the State of New York.  This Agreement is
solely for the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective succes-
sors and assigns, and, except as set forth in subsection 11.9, no other
Persons shall have any right, benefit, priority or interest under, or be-
cause of the existence of, this Agreement.  The designation of any Agent by
the Administrative Agent in connection with the syndication hereof shall
entitle such Agents to certain rights as third-party beneficiaries as pro-
vided herein, without any further act by any party hereto.
11.10.  Submission to Jurisdiction; Waivers.  (a)  Each party
to this Agreement hereby irrevocably and unconditionally:
	(i)	submits for itself and its property in any legal action
or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any of the other Credit
Documents, or for recognition and enforcement of any judgment in re-
spect thereof, to the non-exclusive general jurisdiction of the
courts of the State of New York, the courts of the United States for
the Southern District of New York, and appellate courts from any
thereof;
	(ii)	consents that any such action or proceeding may be
brought in such courts, and waives any objection that it may now or
hereafter have to the venue of any such action or proceeding in any
such court or that such action or proceeding was brought in an incon-
venient court and agrees not to plead or claim the same;
	(iii)	agrees that service of process in any such action or pro-
ceeding may be effected by mailing a copy thereof by registered or
certified mail (or any substantially similar form of mail), postage
prepaid, to such party at its address set forth in subsection 11.2 or
at such other address of which the Administrative Agent shall have
been notified pursuant thereto; and
	(iv)	agrees that nothing herein shall affect the right to ef-
fect service of process in any other manner permitted by law or shall
limit the right to sue in any other jurisdiction.
(b)  Each party hereto unconditionally waives trial by jury in
any legal action or proceeding referred to in paragraph (a) above and any
counterclaim therein.
11.11.  Releases.  The Administrative Agent and the Lenders
agree to cooperate with Borrower and its Subsidiaries with respect to any
sale or other disposition permitted by subsection 8.5 and promptly take
such action and execute and deliver such instruments and documents neces-
sary to release the Liens and security interests created by the Security
Documents relating to any of the assets or property affected by any such
sale permitted by subsection 8.5, including without limitation any UCC
amendment, release or termination or partial release or termination state-
ments subject, however, to the provisions of the applicable Security Docu-
ment.
11.12.  Interest.  Each provision in this Agreement and each
other Credit Document is expressly limited so that in no event whatsoever
shall the amount paid, or otherwise agreed to be paid, by Borrower for the
use, forbearance or detention of the money to be loaned under this Agree-
ment or any other Credit Document or otherwise (including any sums paid as
required by any covenant or obligation contained herein or in any other
Credit Document which is for the use, forbearance or detention of such
money), exceed that amount of money which would cause the effective rate of
interest to exceed the highest lawful rate permitted by applicable law (the
"Highest Lawful Rate"), and all amounts owed under this Agreement and each
other Credit Document shall be held to be subject to reduction to the ef-
fect that such amounts so paid or agreed to be paid which are for the use,
forbearance or detention of money under this Agreement or such other Credit
Document shall in no event exceed that amount of money which would cause
the effective rate of interest to exceed the Highest Lawful Rate.  Notwith-
standing any provision in this Agreement or any other Credit Document to
the contrary, if the maturity of the Loans or the obligations in respect of
the other Credit Documents are accelerated for any reason, or in the event
of any prepayment of all or any portion of the Loans or the obligations in
respect of the other Credit Documents by Borrower or in any other event,
earned interest on the Loans and such other obligations of Borrower may
never exceed the Highest Lawful Rate, and any unearned interest otherwise
payable on the Loans or the obligations in respect of the other Credit
Documents that is in excess of the Highest Lawful Rate shall be canceled
automatically as of the date of such acceleration or prepayment or other
such event and (if theretofore paid) shall, at the option of the holder of
the Loans or such other obligations, be either refunded to Borrower or
credited on the principal of the Loans.  In determining whether or not the
interest paid or payable, under any specific contingency, exceeds the High-
est Lawful Rate, Borrower and the Lenders shall, to the maximum extent per-
mitted by applicable law, amortize, prorate, allocate and spread, in equal
parts during the period of the actual term of this Agreement, all interest
at any time contracted for, charged, received or reserved in connection
with this Agreement.
11.13.  Severability.  Any provision of this Agreement that is
prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdic-
tion, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability
without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibi-
tion or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render
unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
11.14.  Integration.  This Agreement and the other Credit Docu-
ments (and those provisions of the commitment letter dated December 3, 2001
between Borrower and UBS AG, Stamford Branch and UBS Warburg LLC that ex-
pressly by its terms survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement)
represent the entire agreement of Borrower, the Administrative Agent and
the Lenders with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof, and
there are no promises, undertakings, representations or warranties by the
Administrative Agent or any Lender relative to the subject matter hereof
and thereof not expressly set forth or referred to herein or in the other
Credit Documents.
11.15.  Acknowledgments.  Borrower hereby acknowledges that:
(a)  it has been advised by counsel in the negotiation, execu-
tion and delivery of this Agreement and the other Credit Documents;
(b)  neither the Administrative Agent nor any Lender has any
fiduciary relationship with or duty to Borrower arising out of or in
connection with this Agreement or any of the other Credit Documents,
and the relationship between the Administrative Agent and the Lend-
ers, on one hand, and Borrower, on the other hand, in connection
herewith or therewith is solely that of debtor and creditor; and
(c)  no joint venture is created hereby or by the other Credit
Documents or otherwise exists by virtue of the transactions contem-
plated hereby among the Lenders or among Borrower and the Lenders.
SECTION 12.	COLLATERAL ACCOUNT; APPLICATION
OF COLLATERAL PROCEEDS
12.1.  Collateral Account.  (a)  The Administrative Agent is
hereby authorized to establish and maintain at its office at Stamford, Con-
necticut, in the name of the Administrative Agent and pursuant to a Control
Agreement, a restricted deposit account (the "Collateral Account") desig-
nated Hollywood Entertainment Corporation Collateral Account".  Each Credit
Party shall deposit into the Collateral Account from time to time (A) the
Net Proceeds of any Asset Sale (including pursuant to any disposition
thereof, but excluding pursuant to a Taking or Destruction, which is cov-
ered in next succeeding clause (B)) to the extent required by subsection
8.5(h) or (l), and (B) the cash proceeds of any Taking or Destruction to
the extent required by subsection 8.5(d).
(b)  The balance from time to time in the Collateral Account
shall constitute part of the Collateral and shall not constitute payment of
the Obligations until applied as hereinafter provided.  So long as no De-
fault or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or will result
therefrom, the Administrative Agent shall within two Business Days of re-
ceiving a request of the applicable Credit Party for release of cash pro-
ceeds constituting (A) cash proceeds from any Taking or Destruction, remit
such cash proceeds on deposit in the Collateral Account to or upon the or-
der of such Credit Party, so long as such Credit Party has satisfied the
conditions relating thereto set forth in subsection 12.2, (B) Net Proceeds
from any Asset Sale, remit such cash proceeds on deposit in the Collateral
Account to or upon the order of such Credit Party, so long as such Credit
Party has satisfied the conditions relating thereto set forth in subsection
12.2 and (C) with respect to the L/C Sub-Account at such time as all Let-
ters of Credit shall have been terminated and all of the liabilities in re-
spect of the Letters of Credit have been paid in full.  At any time follow-
ing the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the
Administrative Agent may (and, if instructed by the Lenders as specified
herein, shall) in its (or their) discretion apply or cause to be applied
(subject to collection) the balance from time to time outstanding to the
credit of the Collateral Account to the payment of the Obligations in the
manner specified in subsection 12.3 hereof subject, however, in the case of
amounts deposited in the L/C Sub-Account, to the provisions of subsection
12.1(d).  The Credit Parties shall have no right to withdraw, transfer or
otherwise receive any fund deposited in the Collateral Account except to
the extent specifically provided herein.
(c)  Amounts on deposit in the Collateral Account shall be in-
vested from time to time in Cash Equivalents as the applicable Credit Party
(or, after the occurrence and during the continuance of a Default or Event
of Default, the Administrative Agent) shall determine, which Cash Equiva-
lents shall be held in the name and be under the control of the Administra-
tive Agent (or any sub-agent); provided that at any time after the occur-
rence and during the continuance of a Default or Event of Default, the Ad-
ministrative Agent may (and, if instructed by the Lenders as specified
herein, shall) in its (or their) discretion at any time and from time to
time elect to liquidate any such Cash Equivalents and to apply or cause to
be applied the proceeds thereof to the payment of the Obligations in the
manner specified in subsection 12.3 hereof.
(d)  Amounts deposited into the Collateral Account as cover for
liabilities in respect of Letters of Credit under any provision of this
Agreement requiring such cover shall be held by the Administrative Agent in
a separate sub-account designated as the L/C Sub-Account (the "L/C Sub-
Account") and, notwithstanding any other provision hereof to the contrary,
all amounts held in the L/C Sub-Account shall constitute collateral secu-
rity first for the liabilities in respect of Letters of Credit outstanding
from time to time and second as collateral security for the other Obliga-
tions hereunder until such time as all Letters of Credit shall have been
terminated and all of the liabilities in respect of Letters of Credit have
been paid in full.
12.2.  Proceeds of Destruction, Taking and Collateral Disposi-
tions.  (a)  So long as no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred
and be continuing, in the event there shall be any cash proceeds from a
Taking (to the extent such amount is required to be deposited in the Col-
lateral Account pursuant to subsection 12.1(a)(B)) or Destruction (to the
extent such amount is required to be deposited in the Collateral Account
pursuant to subsection 12.1(a)(B)) or Net Proceeds from any Asset Sale (to
the extent such amount is required to be deposited pursuant to subsection
12.1(a)(A)), the applicable Credit Party shall have the right, at such
Credit Party's option, to apply such amounts within twelve months from the
date of the applicable Destruction, Taking or Asset Sale to reinvest in
properties or assets owned (or to be owned) by Borrower or its Restricted
Subsidiaries having a fair market value at least equal to the amount of
such cash proceeds, in accordance with the applicable provisions of this
Agreement.  In the event such Credit Party elects so to reinvest such cash
proceeds, such Credit Party shall deliver to the Administrative Agent (A) a
written notice of such election and (B) an Officers' Certificate stating
that (1) the cash proceeds shall be utilized so to reinvest in Collateral
in the manner contemplated by the proviso set forth in clause (b) of the
definition of Net Proceeds, or the net cash proceeds shall be utilized so
to reinvest in Collateral in the manner contemplated by the proviso set
forth in subsection 8.5(h) or (l), as the case may be, and (2) no Default
or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing (the items described in
clauses (1) and (2) of this sentence, collectively, the "Investment Elec-
tion Notice").  In the event such cash proceeds shall be in an amount less
than $2,000,000, upon receipt of an Investment Election Notice, the Admin-
istrative Agent shall release such net insurance proceeds or net awards or
Net Proceeds to such Credit Party in accordance with the provisions of sub-
section 12.1(b) hereof.
(b)  In the event that an amount equal to or greater than
$2,000,000 is on deposit in the Collateral Account, the Administrative
Agent shall not release any part of such amount in excess of $2,000,000,
until the applicable Credit Party has furnished to the Administrative Agent
(i) an Officers' Certificate setting forth:  (1) a brief description of the
reinvestment to be made, (2) the dollar amount of the expenditures to be
made, or costs incurred by such Credit Party in connection with such rein-
vestment and (3) each request for payment shall be made on at least ten
(10) days' prior notice to the Administrative Agent and such request shall
state that the properties or assets acquired in connection with such rein-
vestment have a fair market value at least equal to the amount of such net
awards or net insurance proceeds or Net Proceeds, as the case may be, re-
quested to be released from the Collateral Account and (ii) all security
agreements and Mortgages and other items required by the provisions of sub-
section 7.9 to, among other things, subject such reinvestment properties or
assets to the Lien of the Security Documents in favor of the Administrative
Agent, for its benefit and for the benefit of the other Secured Parties.
12.3.  Application of Proceeds.  The proceeds received by the
Administrative Agent in respect of any sale of, collection from or other
realization upon all or any part of the Collateral pursuant to the exercise
by the Administrative Agent of its remedies shall be applied, together with
any other sums then held by the Administrative Agent pursuant to this
Agreement, promptly by the Administrative Agent as follows:
FIRST, to the payment of all reasonable costs and expenses,
fees, commissions and taxes of such sale, collection or other reali-
zation including, without limitation, compensation to the Administra-
tive Agent and its agents and counsel, and all expenses, liabilities
and advances made or incurred by the Administrative Agent in connec-
tion therewith, together with interest on each such amount at the
highest rate then in effect under this Agreement from and after the
date such amount is due, owing or unpaid until paid in full;
SECOND, to the payment of all other reasonable costs and ex-
penses of such sale, collection or other realization including, with-
out limitation, compensation to the other Secured Parties and their
agents and counsel and all costs, liabilities and advances made or
incurred by the other Secured Parties in connection therewith, to-
gether with interest on each such amount at the highest rate then in
effect under this Agreement from and after the date such amount is
due, owing or unpaid until paid in full;
THIRD, without duplication of amounts applied pursuant to
clauses FIRST and SECOND above, to the indefeasible payment in full
in cash, pro rata, of (i) interest, principal and other amounts con-
stituting Obligations (other than the obligations arising under the
Interest Rate Agreements) in each case equally and ratably in accor-
dance with the respective amounts thereof then due and owing and
(ii) the obligations arising under the Interest Rate Agreements in
accordance with the terms of the Interest Rate Agreements; and
FOURTH, the balance, if any, to the Person lawfully entitled
thereto (including the applicable Credit Party or its successors or
assigns).
In the event that any such proceeds are insufficient to pay in
full the items described in clauses FIRST through THIRD of this sub-
section 12.3, the Credit Parties shall remain liable for any defi-
ciency.

[This space intentionally left blank]





IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agree-
ment to be duly executed and delivered by their respective authorized offi-
cers as of the day and year first above written.

HOLLYWOOD ENTERTAINMENT CORPORATION
By:	/s/ Donald J. Ekman
Name:   Donald J. Ekman
	Title:     Executive Vice President of
                   Legal Affairs

UBS AG, STAMFORD BRANCH
By:	/s/ Patricia O'Kicki
	Name:	Patricia O'Kicki
	Title:     Director
By:	/s/ Lynne B. Alfarone
	Name:	Lynne B. Alfarone
	Title:     Associate Director

LAGUNA FUNDING TRUST
By:	/s/ Kelly W. Warnement
	Name:	Kelly W. Warnement
	Title:     Authorized Agent

THE PROVIDENT BANK
By:	/s/ Nick Jevic
	Name:	Nick Jevic
	Title:     Senior Vice President

OPPENHEIMER SENIOR FLOATING RATE FUND
By:	/s/ Bill Campbell
	Name:	Bill Campbell
	Title:     Manager

Schedule I to the Credit Agreement

Lender          Commitment      Address

UBS AG, Stamford Branch
                $144,100,000 Tranche B
                Term Loan
                $23,500,000  Revolving
                Credit Loan
                                677 Washington Boulevard
                                Stamford, CT 06901
The Provident Bank
               $1,000,000 Tranche B
               Term Loan
               $1,500,000 Revolving
               Credit Loan
                                One East 4th Street,
                                216A
                                Cincinnati, OH 45202
Laguna Funding Trust
               $2,500,000 Tranche B
               Term Loan
                               100 North Tryon Street
                               NC1-007-06-07
                               Charlotte, NC 28255
Oppenheimer Senior
Floating Rate Fund
               $2,400,000 Tranche B
               Term Loan
                               6803 South Tucson Way
                               Englewood, CO 80112-3924



TOTAL
$150,000,000 Tranche B
Term Loan
$25,000,000 Revolving
Credit Loan



Schedule II to the Credit Agreement

PRICING GRID

               Applicable Margin
               for Eurodollar
               Loans
                                Applicable Margin
                                for Alternate Base
                                Rate Loans
                                                  Commitment
                                                  Fee Rate

Leverage       Revolving        Revolving
Ratio          Credit           Credit
               Loans            Loans


>or= 1.0:1.0   3.50%            2.50%             0.50%

<    1.0:1.0   3.25%            2.25%             0.50%















Footnote continued from previous page.
Footnote continued on next page.
Execution Copy
Page
- -iv-

- -i-

- -3-




S-121




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>ex23-1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 23.1 - CONSENT
<TEXT>

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements on Form S-3 (No. 33-74802) and Forms S-8 (No. 33-80080, No.
33-81844, No. 333-03524, No. 333-40229, No. 333-87061, No. 333-67482)
of Hollywood Entertainment Corporation of our report dated February 19,
2002, except as to Note 25, which is as of March 18, 2002, relating to
the financial statements, which appear in this Form 10-K.


PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Portland, Oregon
April 1, 2002





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
